>>> THESE PEOPLE ARE LOOKING FOR
ANYTHING THEY CAN GET BECAUSE
THEY KNOW THEY ARE GOING TO LOSE
THE ELECTION.
>> WHAT IS THE IMPEACHABLE
OFFENSE?
>> WHAT IS AT STAKE AND ALL OF
THIS IS NOTHING LESS THAN
OUR DEMOCRACY.
>> PRESIDENT TRUMP ACCUSED OF
SEEKING A QUID PRO QUO,
EXPLOSIVE TESTIMONY FROM AN ALLY
OF THE PRESIDENT,  AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND.  I WASN'T ONLY
PRESIDENT
TRUMP THAT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
POINTED THE FINGER AT. HE ALSO
IMPLICATED OTHER TOP MEMBERS OF
THE A
ADMINISTRATION.  HIS HAVE OUR
TESTIMONY CONTINUES TODAY IN DAY
FIVE OF THE IMPEACHMENT
HEARINGS. WELCOME TO LIVE
COVERAGE FROM THE WASHINGTON
POST I AM LIBBY CASEY. I AM
JOINING YOU FROM A STUDIO IN
ATLANTA, GEORGIA. WHERE WE HOPE
COHOSTED THE PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE
WITH MSNBC. ALL EYES ARE
RETURNING TO CAPITOL HILL FOR
THIS FIFTH DAY OF TESTIMONY. WE
WILL SEE FIONA HILL, A FORMER
TOP ADVISOR IN THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL TESTIFY. AS
WELL AS DAVID HOLMES, WHO MAY
HAVE SOME GOOD INFORMATION ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENED WITH HIS QUESTION
OF BOTH MONEY AND INFLUENCE IN
THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT.
JOINING US FROM OUR WASHINGTON
POST STUDIO, AMBER PHILLIPS AND
ELISE VIEBECK. WE HAD TO LOOK
FORWARD, OF COURSE, TO TODAY'S
TESTIMONY BUT I NEED TO START
WITH YESTERDAY. I WANT YOU TO
PUT IN CONTEXT FOR US JUST
WHAT THE SONDLAND TESTIMONY
MEANT WITH THIS INVESTIGATION?
>> IT WAS HUGE AND THAT IS WHY
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT THAT RATHER
THAN WITNESSES IN ANOTHER DAY OF
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY PUBLIC
HEARINGS RIGHT OFF
THE BAT, GORDON SONDLAND IS A
TRUMP APPOINTEE, A TRUMP DONOR,
A GUY WHO SAID HE WAS DOING
TRUMP'S BIDDING IN UKRAINE, GETS
UP TO THE WITNESS STAND AND
OTHER UNDER OATH SAYS WAS THERE
A QUID PRO QUO? YES. I ALSO
PERSONALLY PRESUME THERE WAS ONE
FOR MILITARY AID AS WELL, I WENT
ABOUT DOING IT. IT WASN'T A
SECRET. AS YOU SAID LIBBY, HE
BROUGHT WITH HIM EMAILS AND TEXT
MESSAGES TO SAY VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE  KNEW OF THIS OR I TOLD
HIM MY CONCERNS ABOUT IT.
SECRETARY STATE MIKE POMPEO, HE
IS A TON OF EMAILS WHERE MIKE
POMPEO IS INCLUDED IN
THESE CONVERSATIONS. ENERGY
SECRETARY RICK PERRY, FORMER
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR JOHN
BOLTON, A BUNCH OF HIS STAFF ON
THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL AT
THE TIME. SONDLAND WENT IN AND
SAID  IF I'M GOING TO GO DOWN ON
THIS AND BRINGING EVERYONE DOWN
WITH ME. IT WAS HUGE.
>> ELISE, REPUBLICANS, OF COURSE
MANAGED TO PUSH BACK IT SEEMED
TO TAKE THEM A LITTLE WHILE TO
GET SOME MOMENTUM YESTERDAY. IT
ALMOST SEEMED LIKE THEY WERE
CAUGHT A LITTLE FLAT-FOOTED BY
WHAT GORDON SONDLAND SAID. CAN
YOU GIVE ADVICE, FROM YOUR
PERSPECTIVE OF HOW THIS WAS
HANDLED BY THE REPUBLICANS?
>> IT DID
TAKE REPUBLICANS TO RALLY AROUND
A TALKING POINT AND I THINK WHAT
THEY ULTIMATELY LANDED ON HIS
DESK, GORDON SONDLAND SAID THAT
HE NEVER HEARD PRESIDENT TRUMP
SAY, SPECIFICALLY TO HIM THAT HE
WAS TRYING TO DO A QUID PRO QUO
WITH UKRAINE, THAT HE IS TRYING
TO BRIBE UKRAINE. I SAT IN FACT,
AS SOMEONE SAID TRUMP DENIED
THAT TO HIM. IT WAS INTERESTING
FOR THE REPUBLICANS TO MAKE THIS
CASE THAT WHILE THERE MAY HAVE
BEEN SOME KIND OF PRESSURE
CAMPAIGN OR QUID PRO QUO GOING
ON, IT WASN'T TRUMP WHO PERHAPS
WAS
BEHIND IT. THEY ARE SLOWLY,
SLOWLY TRYING TO ISOLATE THE
PRESIDENT FROM WHAT THEY SEE AS
A MALIGN INFLUENCE, HIS ADVISORS
LIKE A RUDY GIULIANI, HIS
PERSONAL LAWYER. YOU CAN SEE AS
REPUBLICANS REALIZE THE EVIDENCE
IS GETTING CLOSER AND CLOSER TO
THE PRESIDENT, THEY STEP UP
THEIR EFFORTS TO DEFEND HIM, TO
VIEW THEM AS SEPARATE FROM ALL
OF THESE OTHER EFFORTS. THEY ARE
DOING WHAT THEY CAN TO INSULATE
HIM IN THAT WAY.
>> OUR COLLEAGUE
RHONDA CALVIN WAS THERE, LET'S
GO TO HER ON CAPITOL HILL. WHAT
WAS IT LIKE IN THE HEARING ROOM?
A LOT OF PEOPLE GOT THE
TESTIMONY AHEAD OF TIME
EVEN THOUGH IT WAS EMBARGOED
UNTIL 9:00 AND WE CANNOT SHARE
IT. WITHOUT A SENSE OF WHAT
HAPPENED BUT IT'S DIFFERENT TO
HEAR THE WORDS COME OUT OF THE
WITNESSES MOUTH, WHAT WAS IT
LIKE?
>> THAT IS TRUE AND THAT IS THE
DIFFERENCE, WE DID NOW, IT WAS
REPORTED A FEW MINUTES BEFORE HE
GAVE THE OPENING STATEMENT THAT
HE WOULD BE VERY CLEAR ON THAT
THERE WAS QUID PRO QUO, BUT IT
WAS NOTHING, WHEN HE SAID OUT
LOUD IT WAS NOTHING THAT HAD
BEEN RECORDED BEFORE. HE REALLY
MADE IT CLEAR, HE EMPHASIZED THE
WORDS. IF YOU SAW THE CLIP A
DEPOSIT BETWEEN WORDS TO BE
VERY, VERY CLEAR THAT YES, THERE
WAS QUID
PRO QUO. IT IS AN ASTOUNDING
MOMENT TO BE IN THERE, WATCHING
THIS AS IT HAPPENED. HIS
STATEMENT WAS ABOUT 23 PAGES
LONG SO, HE HAD A LOT TO SAY BUT
IT WAS THAT MOMENT THAT TOOK THE
ROOM, WHERE EVERYONE, YOU KNOW,
WAS ASTOUNDED BY WHAT HE SAID.
>> OKAY RHONDA. SO, THAT WAS
YESTERDAY. WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU
ARE WATCHING FOR TODAY, WHAT YOU
BE LISTENING FOR AND GIVE US A
PREVIEW, DO WE EXPECT TO BE HERE
NEXT TIME AT THIS TIME
RHONDA COLVIN?
>> I WILL DO THIS IN REVERSE,
NO, WE ARE NOT EXPECTED TO BE
HERE UNLESS AN ANNOUNCEMENT IS
MADE. THEY ARE PLANNING A
THANKSGIVING PARADE, BREAK, AS
PER USUAL, DURING HOUSE TYPICAL
CHARACTER, SO WE AREN'T
EXPECTING ANYTHING NEXT WEEK TO
HAPPEN IN PUBLIC BUT I WILL SAY
STAY TUNED. THEY ARE GOING TO BE
VERY BUSY WHEN THEY COME BACK.
AS
FOR TODAY, FIONA HILL WILL BE AN
INTERESTING WITNESS TO LISTEN
TO. ONE OF THOSE REASONS IS
BECAUSE SHE THE TORT JULY 26
PHONE CALL BUT IS ABLE TO GIVE A
LOT OF DETAILS WAS WHAT MAY HAVE
HAPPENED WITH QUID
PRO QUO IN ANY NEGOTIATIONS
LEADING TO THE PHONE CALL AND
SHE'S ABLE TO ESTABLISH THAT
TIMELINE VERY EARLY ON IN THE
MONTH OF JULY BEFORE THE PHONE
CALL HAPPENED. SHE ALSO NAMED A
LOT OF NAMES THAT WHEN SHE GAVE
HER PERSONAL DEPOSITION THAT WE
HAVE NOT YET UNDERSTOOD INVOLVED
IN THESE EVENTS. ONE OF THEM WAS
MICK MULVANEY. SHE TALKED ABOUT
HOW HE PLAYED AN ESSENTIAL ROLE
IN POSSIBLY DESIGNATING SONDLAND
AND OTHERS TO HANDLE THE UKRAINE
POLICY.  SHE TALKED A LOT ABOUT
RUDY GIULIANI AND HOW SHE WAS
VERY CONCERNED HE WAS OPERATING
A SHADOW FOREIGN-POLICY EFFORT
IN
UKRAINE UNDER A WAY THAT WAS NOT
A PART OF TYPICAL GOVERNMENT
PROTOCOL. SHE TALKED A LOT ABOUT
THAT AND SHE ALSO TALKED A LOT
ABOUT SONDLAND AND HOW SHE WAS
CONCERNED WITH HOW  INVOLVED HE
WAS AS EU AMBASSADOR. SHE ALSO
TALKED ABOUT HOW
SHE HAD A CONFRONTATION WITH HIM
SAYING WHO PUT YOU IN CHARGE OF
THIS UKRAINE NEGOTIATION? AND HE
SAID THE PRESIDENT. THOSE THINGS
WILL PROBABLY COME OUT TODAY,
SHE MAY BE ABLE TO TIE ALL THESE
THINGS TOGETHER AS ONE OF THE
FINAL WITNESSES IN THIS PUBLIC
PHASE.
>> GREAT, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
NEXT THURSDAY I HOPE YOU ARE
WITH YOUR FAMILY AND I AM WITH
MY FAMILY. WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE
THE HEARINGS TO GO INTO
THANKSGIVING WEEK ALTHOUGH THE
COMMITTEE CAN CERTAINLY MAKE
SOME DECISIONS THAT IF THEY NEED
TO CALL MORE WITNESSES IN, THIS
IS THE
LAST DAY OF THIS PUBLIC INQUIRY
PROCESS BEFORE THE HOUSE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE, THAT WE
KNOW OF AT THIS POINT. THE
CHAIRMAN ADAM SCHIFF DOES HAVE
THE POWER TO ADD MORE TO THE
ROSTER. WE WILL BE STAYING TUNED
TO SEE IF THE COMMITTEE BELIEVES
THERE'S ANY MORE WITNESSES YET
TO TESTIFY. THERE ARE A LOT OF
NAMES THAT COME TO COME UP, EVEN
YESTERDAY THAT ARE RAISING EVEN
MORE QUESTIONS ABOUT WHERE
RESPONSIBILITY LIES FOR THIS
QUESTIONABLE DEAL AND
NEGOTIATIONS WITH UKRAINE. WHAT
IS
YOUR SENSE OF THE VOICES THAT WE
HAVEN'T HEARD FROM THEY CAN
STILL BE REALLY CRUCIAL?
>> THERE ARE VOICES WE HAVEN'T
HEARD FROM THAT ARE CRUCIAL THAT
WE WILL NEVER HEAR FROM AND ONE
CATEGORY OF A PERSON WHO IS
CRUCIAL THAT WE MIGHT HEAR FROM.
I WILL START WITH THE FIRST,
VICE PRESIDENT PENCE  AND
SECRETARY OF STATE
MIKE POMPEO. TRUMP'S PERSONAL
LAWYER, RUDY GIULIANI. DEMOCRATS
WOULD LOVE TO TALK TO THEM.
GORDON SONDLAND ILLUSTRATED
YESTERDAY A CHAIN OF COMMAND
THAT WENT TRUMP, THESE PEOPLE,
RUDY GIULIANI, AND HIM. HE WAS
JUST CARRYING OUT THEIR ORDERS.
I WOULD BE SHOCKED IF, YOU KNOW,
RUDY GIULIANI OR ANY OF THESE
DEMONSTRATION OFFICIALS CAME
FORWARD. THEY ALL ISSUED
STATEMENTS DENYING SONDLAND'S
CHARACTERIZATION OF EVENT AND
PLAYING OF THE FACT THAT
SONDLAND HAS NOT BEEN
FORTHCOMING  IN HIS PREVIOUS
TESTIMONY. UNDERMINING HIM.
SONDLAND MENTIONED  THE NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR AT THE TIME,
JOHN BOLTON. WE WILL HEAR FIONA
HILL TALK TODAY ABOUT JOHN
BOLTON BECAUSE HE WAS HER BOSS
AT THE TIME OF THESE CRUCIAL
MEETINGS THAT
RHONDA OUTLINED. HE HAS
INDICATED THAT HE WOULD BE
INTERESTED IN
TALKING TO. I'M READING BETWEEN
THE LINES BUT IT SEEMS LIKE HE
WANTS TO. HOWEVER, THAT HE IS
NOT IN THE WHITE HOUSE ANYMORE
HE SAID IS A WHITE HOUSE BAN ON
COMPLYING WITH CONGRESS. I WILL
LET THE COURTS DECIDE AND THAT
COULD TAKE A WHILE. WE MAY NOT
HEAR FROM JOHN BOLTON ANYTIME
SOON BECAUSE DEMOCRATS ARE ON A
REALLY TIGHT TIMELINE TO GET
THIS OUT BEFORE
2020 STARTS. I'M WATCHING TO SEE
IF HE CHANGES HIS MIND. SAYING
YOU KNOW GUYS, THIS IS TOO MUCH,
I WANT IN, MAKE ROOM FOR ME IN A
PUBLIC HEARING.
>> ELISE LET'S GO TO YOU AND
HEAR ABOUT WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO
BE WATCHING TODAY FROM FIONA
HILL IN PARTICULAR. I'D ALSO
LIKE TO HEAR ABOUT DAVID HOLMES
ABOUT FIONA HILL IS SOMEONE THAT
EVERYONE IS TALKING ABOUT IS THE
ONE TO WATCH
THIS MORNING.
>> THAT IS RIGHT, IN FACT THIS
WHOLE WEEK WE KNEW GORDON
SONDLAND'S TESTIMONY WAS LIKELY
GOING TO BE THE MOST DRAMATIC
ABOUT PERSONALLY I HAVE BEEN
WAITING TO HEAR FROM FIONA HILL.
HERE IS WHY, SHE IS A VERY
STRONG AND CAPABLE LEADER IN THE
NATIONAL SECURITY WORLD. SHE
DOES NOT SUFFER
FULL SLIGHTLY. FOOLS LIGHTLY. WE
KNEW THIS FROM HER DEPOSITION,
SHE TENDS TO GO HEAD-TO-HEAD,
WITH THE PEOPLE WHO ARE POSING
QUESTIONS TO HER. WE KNOW THAT
ALL OF THESE LAWMAKERS ON THE
DAIS ARE VERY INTERESTED IN
USING THEIR MOMENTS OF
QUESTIONING TO FRAME FOR TV, TO
BE ABLE TO PULL THE VIDEO CLIPS
INTO FUTURE CAMPAIGN ADS, TO RUN
THEM ON FOX NEWS IF YOU'RE A
REPUBLICAN. THEIR GOAL, IN THOSE
MOMENTS, IS TO PULL THE WITNESS
IN CERTAIN DIRECTIONS AND HAVE
THEM SAY CERTAIN THINGS THAT ARE
SUPPORTIVE OF THE PARTIES
NARRATIVE. I THINK WHAT WE WILL
SEE FROM FIONA HILL TODAY IS
THAT SHE IS NOT WILLING TO BE
PULLED IN ANY DIRECTION. SHE
WILL CONFRONT EITHER DEMOCRATS
OR REPUBLICANS TRYING TO GET HER
TO
SAY SOMETHING. NOT ONLY WILL SHE
REFUSED TO DO THAT, SHE WILL
ACTUALLY CALL THEM OUT,
I THINK, ON WHAT THEY ARE TRYING
TO DO. SHE IS LIKELY TO BE A
VERY DRAMATIC AND COMPELLING
WITNESS FOR DEMOCRATS AS SHE,
AGAIN, AS A FRONT ROW SEAT AT
THE WHITE HOUSE OR HAD ONE
PORTION OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL. THE OTHER THING, SHE
CAME OUT WITH HER OPENING
STATEMENT JUST THIS MORNING AND
WE HAD A CHANCE TO TAKE A LOOK
AT THAT. WE CAN TELL, SHE TALKS
ABOUT
TWO TOPICS. ONE IS HER PERSONAL
BACKGROUND SHE'S A NATIVE OF THE
UNITED KINGDOM WHO BECAME A
NATURALIZED CITIZEN IN 2002. SHE
TALKS ABOUT HER PAY PATRIOTISM
AND COMMITMENT AS AN AMERICAN
AND SECOND AND MORE IMPORTANTLY,
SHE IS ONE OF THIS COUNTRY'S TOP
EXPERTS ON RUSSIA AND THE FORMER
SOVIET BLOC. WHAT SHE DOES IN
HER OPENING STATEMENT IS SORT OF
PUT THE LIE TO THE IDEA THAT
RUSSIANS DID
NOT INTERFERE IN THE 2016
ELECTION. THIS IS BEEN A
REPUBLICAN TALKING POINT THE
IDEA THAT PERHAPS IT WAS UKRAINE
THAT DID THE INTERFERENCE. SHE
SAYS VERY SPECIFICALLY AND
UNEQUIVOCALLY THAT THAT IS A LIE
THAT HAS BEEN PERPETUATED BY
RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE. SHE IS
BASICALLY GOING TO BE ACCUSING
THE GOP LAWMAKERS OF FORWARDING
AN ARGUMENT THAT HAS BEEN PUT
OUT
THERE TO ADVANTAGE RUSSIA. AS
YOU CAN SEE, I THINK IT'S GOING
TO BE QUITE DRAMATIC
THIS MORNING.
>> YOU TO IMAGINE THAT JOHN
BOLTON WILL BE WATCHING THIS
TESTIMONY CLOSELY AS WELL. CAN
YOU WEIGH IN ON THE QUESTION OF
BOLTON
TESTIMONY AND EVEN IF IT DOESN'T
COME THIS WEEK, COULD COME AT
SOME LATER POINT IN THE PROCESS?
AND HOW IMPORTANT WOULD THAT BE?
>> HIS VOICE WOULD BE EXTRA
NARROWLY IMPORTANT. HE HAD A
CLOSER INSIGHT INTO WHAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS DOING AND
THINKING. AGAIN, AS WE TALK TO
MORE AND MORE WITNESSES AND GET
CLOSER TO THE PRESIDENT WHICH IS
WHAT DEMOCRATS WANT AND
REPUBLICANS SEPARATE
SPECIFICALLY DON'T WANT. JOHN
BOLTON IS WAITING FOR A COURT TO
FIGURE OUT WHETHER HE'S ALLOWED
TO TESTIFY. IT IS POSSIBLE HE
CAN MAKE IT DIFFERENT DECISION.
IF HE WANTS TO, HE CERTAINLY
CAN. BUT I THINK THE TIMELINE IS
REALLY IMPORTANT TO REVIEW HERE.
DEMOCRATS WON TO WRAP THIS UP AS
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE IN ORDER TO
MOVE THE PROCEEDING TO THE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE AND THEN TO
THE SENATE FOR A TRIAL BEFORE
THE 2020 ELECTION AND PRIMARY
SEASON GETS UNDERWAY. WE
KNOW SENATORS WILL HAVE TO BE
STUCK IN WASHINGTON AT THE TRIAL
COMES TO PASS AND MANY OF THE
CENTERS ARE RUNNING FOR THE
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINATION AND WANT TO BE OUT ON
THE TRAIL. THERE IS A TIMELINE.
I THINK THE PROBLEM WITH BOLTON
POTENTIALLY TESTIFYING LATER IS
THAT DEMOCRATS WILL HAVE TO SLOW
DOWN THE PROCESS, WHICH THEY DO
NOT WANT
TO DO. AT THIS MOMENT, THIS IS
THE LAST PUBLIC HEARING WE HAVE
ON THE SCHEDULE. IT'S POSSIBLE
THE HOUSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
WILL ANNOUNCE MORE BUT, AS OF
NOW, THEY HAVE FIONA HILL AND
DAVID HOLMES AS THEIR CLOSERS. I
THINK THEY WOULD CERTAINLY BE AN
ADVANTAGE, FROM THE DEMOCRATS
PERSPECTIVE, BUT HAVING SOMEONE
LIKE JOHN BOLTON COME TESTIFY.
WE SAW MANY EDITORIALS AND MAJOR
NEWSPAPERS SAYING THE DEMOCRATS
REALLY SHOULD SLOW THIS DOWN.
THE GORDON SONDLAND'S TESTIMONY
BROUGHT UP TOO MANY NEW
POTENTIAL PLAYERS, TOO MANY NEW
POTENTIAL FACTORS FOR THE
DEMOCRATS TO STOP NOW. I THINK
MAYBE YOU AND ME BOTH LIKE
THANKSGIVING WEEK, SO MAYBE THE
WEEK AFTER THANKSGIVING WILL
COME BACK IN HERE FOR MORE
PEOPLE LIKE JOHN BOLTON?
>> DEMOCRATS ARE AWARE OF LIKE
COMPETING INTERESTS, INCLUDING
WHAT IT MEANS TO THE 2020 RACE.
AND JUST FOR CONTROL GOES NEXT.
YOU
MENTIONED THE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE WILL PICK THINGS UP
BUT WE ARE WATCHING TO SEE WHAT
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE WOULD
COME OUT WITH, WHAT SORT OF
REPORT THEY WOULD GENERATE. WE
ARE STARTING TO GET A SENSE OF
WHAT ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT THE
DEMOCRATS WOULD DRAFT AND WHAT
IT MIGHT LOOK LIKE. BUT GORDON
SONDLAND DID START A LOT OR STIR
A LOT OF THREADS. WHAT QUESTIONS
DID HE RAISE FOR YOU ABOUT OTHER
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS AND,
HOW CAN THE DEMOCRATS EVEN PULL
AT THOSE THREADS WITHOUT TAKING
UP A LOT
MORE TIME?
>> WHAT DID THEY HEAR FROM THE
PRESIDENT? THIS IS STILL THE
CRUX OF THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY.
BECAUSE SOMEONE
SONDLAND,  HIMSELF, HE SAID WHAT
YOU WANT FROM UKRAINE AND HE
SAID I PROBABLY USE A FOUR
LETTER WORD IN THE QUESTION. THE
PRESIDENT TONIGHT, I DON'T
WANT A QUID PRO QUO, I DON'T
WANT A ANDRIY YERMAK, THAT
DOESN'T MEAN A LOT. IT DID NOT
MEET A LOT TO SONDLAND. HE SAID
I WAS BEING TOLD BY RUDY
GIULIANI  AND LOOPED IN AND BY
SECRETARY MIKE POMPEO TO PURSUE
THIS QUID PRO QUO  INVESTIGATION
FOR A MEETING WITH TRUMP AND
LATER PRESUMED FOR MILITARY AID.
SO, I'M TRYING TO SUMMARIZE IT
HERE. SONDLAND SAYS  HE HEARD
THIS DIRECTLY FROM RUDY GIULIANI
AND THE ONE TIME HE ASKED TRUMP
TRUMP DENIED IT. WHAT DO THESE
OTHER ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS,
WHAT DO THEY HEAR FROM TRUMP
BECAUSE THAT IS LIKE THE FRIEND,
I STILL
SEE REPUBLICANS HANGING ONTO.
YOU DO NOT HEAR DIRECTLY FROM
TRUMP SO HE IS INNOCENT. TO THE
EXTENT THAT DEMOCRATS CAN HAVE
SOMEONE WHO HEARD TRUMP'S VOICE
EXPLICITLY SAY GET ME THOSE
INVESTIGATIONS, THEY FEEL THAT
WOULD BE CASE CLOSED. I AM
WATCHING FOR A HINT OF THAT
TODAY. WERE GOING TO HAVE
SOMEONE TESTIFY, DAVID HOLMES,
U.S. EMBASSY OFFICIAL IN
UKRAINE, WHO IS ONE OF THE ONLY
WITNESSES WHO HEARD TRUMP'S
VOICE ASKED FOR INVESTIGATIONS.
HE WASN'T IN THE ROOM, HE WAS
OVERHEARING A PHONE CALL GORDON
SONDLAND MADE TO THE PRESIDENT
AT A RESTAURANT. HE SAID TRUMP
TALKS REALLY LOUDLY SO SONDLAND
PULLED  THE PHONE AWAY FROM
HIS AIR EAR AND DAVID HOLMES
SITTING ACROSS FROM TO HIM SAID
HER THE PRESIDENT SAY, SO HE'S
GOING TO DO IT? YES HE IS GOING
TO DO IT SONDLAND REPLIED.
>> AMBER,
GORDON SONDLAND SEEM TO HAVE
SOME MEMORY PROBLEMS THROUGHOUT
THIS PROCESS. FIRST AMENDING HIS
CLOSED-DOOR STATEMENT BUT THEN
YESTERDAY, HE SAID LIKE IF I
HAVE
THE NOTES I BE ABLE TO REMEMBER
EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED BUT I HAVE
A LOT OF PHONE CALLS AND HE WAS
A LITTLE BIT CASUAL AND RELAXED
AND TRYING TO RECALL THINGS. SO,
DOES THAT MAKE THE DAVID HOLMES
TESTIMONY ALL THE MORE
IMPORTANT? AS SOMEONE WHO IS
MORE OF A BACKGROUND IN THE
RIGORS OF STATE DEPARTMENT AND
DIPLOMATIC WAY OF TAKING NOTES?
DOCUMENTING THINGS? THERE'S A
REAL PROTOCOL THAT TAKES PLACE,
DOES THAT MAKE THEM ALL THE MORE
RELEVANT?
>> ABSOLUTELY. SONDLAND IS THE
ONLY WITNESS WHO HAS COME
FORWARD
AND DIDN'T DO HIS HOMEWORK
BEFORE HE WENT BEFORE THE
COMMITTEE. HE TRIED TO BLAME IT
ON THE STATE PERMIT AND WHITE
HOUSE SAYING THEY WOULDN'T LET
ME ACCESS MY OWN EMAILS. TO SOME
EXTENT, THAT IS PROBABLY TRUE.
BUT TO ANOTHER ACCENT SONDLAND
SEEMED
CAVALIER  ABOUT THE WHOLE
PROCESS CLAIMING HE'S HERE TO
TESTIFY BECAUSE HE UNDERSTANDS
THE GRAVITY OF THE SITUATION.
TODAY, DEMOCRATS HAVE TWO PEOPLE
WHO WERE WITH SONDLAND AT KEY
MOMENTS  IN JULY. FIONA HILL
HEARD SONDLAND TELL UKRAINIANS
AT A WHITE HOUSE MEETING ON
JULY 10th, LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATIONS. SHE SAYS SHE
CONFRONTED SONDLAND,  AS WELL AS
HER NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
ALEXANDER REDMAN WHO
SAID IT VINDMAN WHO SAID IT IT
WAS INAPPROPRIATE, WERE YOU
DOING, THAT'S NOT A PART OF U.S.
POLICY TOWARDS UKRAINE, AND THE
DAVID HOLMES AS WELL HEARD HIM
TALKING DIRECTLY TO THE
PRESIDENT ABOUT INVESTIGATIONS.
YOU HAVE TWO PEOPLE WHO CAN TIE
TOGETHER SOME OF THE LOOSE ENDS
THAT SONDLAND LEFT OPEN DURING
HIS TESTIMONY WHICH IS  WHAT DID
THE PRESIDENT WANT? AND WHY DID
SONDLAND FEEL  THAT IS WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTED, DESPITE
HEARING A DENIAL FROM THE
PRESIDENT.
>> WE WILL HEAR
IT AND GORDON SONDLAND'S OWN
WORDS, THIS IS HIS OPENING
STATEMENT FROM YESTERDAY.
>> AND THE MEMBERS OF THIS
COMMITTEE FREQUENTLY FRAME THESE
COMPLICATED ISSUES IN THE FORM
OF A SIMPLE QUESTION. WAS THERE
A QUID PRO QUO?  AS I TESTIFIED
PREVIOUSLY, WITH REGARD TO THE
REQUESTED WHITE HOUSE CALL AND
WHITE HOUSE MEETING, THE ANSWER
IS YES. MR. GIULIANI CONVEYED TO
SECRETARY PERRY, AMBASSADOR
VOLKER, AND OTHERS,  THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTED A PUBLIC
STATEMENT FROM PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY COMMITTING TO
INVESTIGATIONS OF BURISMA AND
THE 2016 ELECTION.  MR. GIULIANI
EXPRESSED THIS REQUEST DIRECTLY
TO THE UKRAINIANS OF MR.
GIULIANI ALSO EXPRESSED THOSE
REQUESTS DIRECTLY TO US. WE ALL
UNDERSTOOD THAT THESE
PREREQUISITES FOR THE WHITE
HOUSE CALL, AND THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING, REFLECTED PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DESIRES AND
REQUIREMENTS.
>> SO, ELISE, THIS QUESTION OF A
WHITE HOUSE MEETING VERSUS THE
QUESTION OF UKRAINIAN MILITARY
AID, CAN YOU BREAK DOWN FOR US
WHY REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS
ARE TALKING ABOUT THOSE TWO
ITEMS? REPUBLICANS ARE TRYING TO
TEASE THE TWO APART. ELISE?
>> FOR VIEWERS WHO HAVE NOT BEEN
WATCHING THIS QUITE AS CLOSELY
WHAT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT WHEN
WE SAY MILITARY AID IS
ASSISTANCE THROUGH THE PENTAGON
AND STATE DEPARTMENT TO SUPPORT
MILITARY ACTION AGAINST RUSSIA
IN UKRAINE. WHEN IT COMES TO THE
WHITE HOUSE MEETING, THAT WAS
SOMETHING THE NEW PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE WANTED IN ORDER TO PUT
TRADE TO THE WORLD THAT THE U.S.
IS AN ALLY OF UKRAINE, AND OF
THE NEW GOVERNMENT. A PHOTO OP
WITH TRUMP WOULD BE NOTHING BUT
GOOD FOR ZELENSKY.  THESE ARE
TWO THINGS THE UKRAINIANS WERE
PURSUING AND, IN FACT, OUR
CONGRESS HAD ALREADY
APPROPRIATED MILITARY AID FOR
UKRAINE THAT WAS THEN HELD UP.
AT THIS POINT, I THINK THE
WITNESSES ARE REALLY GIVING US
NEW INSIGHT TO HOW THESE TWO
PARTICULAR ELEMENTS, THESE
ELEMENTS OF VALUE, WHICH IS HOW
ADAM SCHIFF WOULD CALL THEM,
WERE JINGLED FOR THE UKRAINIANS
WHEN THERE WAS THIS PRESSURE
CAMPAIGN GOING ON TO ENCOURAGE
ZELENSKY TO LAUNCH
INVESTIGATIONS  OF THE BIDENS ,
AND OF THIS
CONSPIRACY THEORY OF
INTERFERENCE BY UKRAINE IN THE
26 ELECTION. 2016 ELECTION. WHAT
WE WILL HEAR MORE TODAY FROM
DAVID HOLMES, IT WAS ABOUT THESE
INVESTIGATIONS, SPECIFICALLY
BECAUSE HE OVERHEARD THAT CALL
IN THE RESTAURANT FROM GORDON
SONDLAND TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP.  WHERE PRESIDENT TRUMP,
AGAIN, INQUIRED ABOUT THE STATUS
OF INVESTIGATIONS.  THIS WAS ONE
DAY AFTER THE CALL WITH ZELENSKY
, WHERE HE PLACED PRESSURE ON
HIM TO LAUNCH THEM INTO THE
BIDENS.
>> AMBER, WE NOT ONLY HAVE NOT
TALKED ABOUT WHO TESTIFIED
YESTERDAY. LAURA COOPER WHO
WORKS AT THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT,
DAVID HALE WHO COMES FROM THE
STATE DEPARTMENT. WHY WAS THE
TESTIMONY SIGNIFICANT?
>> THEY CAN PLAY OFF WHAT DAVID
HOLMES WILL TALK ABOUT IN THE
JULY 26 MEETING. THEY WERE
SANDWICHED BETWEEN GORDON
SONDLAND AND THE DEBATE. I GOT
TO LISTEN TO THEM. LAURA COOPER
IS
A TOP PENTAGON OFFICIAL WHOSE
JOB IS TO THINK ABOUT LONG-TERM
STRATEGY
TOWARD RUSSIA. AND, WHOSE OFFICE
WAS WORKING ON APPROVING THE
UKRAINE AID THAT CONGRESS HAD
APPROPRIATED. THEIR JOB WAS TO
SAY THAT UKRAINE NEEDS ALL THESE
CONDITIONS. WE DON'T THINK THEY
WILL SPEND IN A CORRUPT WAY. WE
SHOULD GIVE OUR TAXPAYER MONEY
TO THEM, THAT IS FINE. IT GOT
HELD UP
IN MAY. EXCUSE ME, IT WAS
APPROPRIATED IN MAY, GOT HELD UP
SOMETIME BETWEEN THEM. THE
TIMELINE IS FUZZY ON WHEN THAT
HAPPENED. SHE WASN'T CLEAR WHY
IT GOT HELD UP, SHE STRENUOUSLY
ADVOCATED FOR IT TO GET UNFROZEN
AND THEN BROKE SOME NEWS
BY SAYING UKRAINIANS ALERTED MY
STAFF ON JULY 25th, WHAT IS UP
WITH THE MILITARY AID? WE ARE
NOT EXACTLY SURE THAT THEY LIKE
KNEW THEY WEREN'T GETTING THEIR
MILITARY AID AT THIS POINT BUT,
COOPER TESTIFIED THAT IT SEEMED
LIKELY THAT THEY KNEW IT WAS
FROZEN. JULY 25th MATTERS
BECAUSE IT IS THE SAME DAY THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY GOT ON THE
PHONE WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP,  AND
TRUMP SAID I NEED A FAVOR FROM
YOU. AND TALKED ABOUT
INVESTIGATING DEMOCRATS AND THE
BIDENS.  THE INTERPRETATION I
GET FROM THAT IS THAT IT IS VERY
LIKELY THE UKRAINIANS RECOGNIZED
THERE IT WAS FROZEN, REACH OUT
TO THE PENTAGON TO UNDERSTAND
WHY. AND THEN THE PRESIDENT
HOPPED ON A PHONE CALL WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT WOULD GO A
LONG WAY TO UNDERMINING
REPUBLICANS ARGUMENT THAT THERE
WAS NO QUID PRO QUO  EXPLICIT IN
THAT PHONE CALL. YOU HAVE
ZELENSKY  BEING ASKED A FAVOR BY
THE PRESIDENT, KNOWING $400
MILLION OF AID THAT HE BADLY
NEEDED TO COUNTER RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS IN HIS OWN COUNTRY
WAS IN THE BALANCE. LAST NIGHT'S
TESTIMONY ABOUT THIS JULY 25th
DATE I THINK WILL FLOW INTO
TODAY'S TESTIMONY ABOUT A JULY
26 PHONE CALL THAT SONDLAND HAD
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP  AND TRUMP
SAID, I LOOK BACK AT MY NOTES HE
EXPLICITLY SAID "SO THEY ARE
GOING TO DO THE INVESTIGATION?"
HE ASKED ABOUT
INVESTIGATION.
>> THAT TAPE YOU ARE TALKING
ABOUT FROM LAURA COOPER, LISTEN
TO THIS.
>> AS EARLY AS JULY 25th, OF THE
SAME DAY PRESIDENT TRUMP SPOKE
WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY ON THE
PHONE  AND ASKED FOR THIS FAVOR,
THE SAME DAY THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY
THANK THANKED THE UNITED STATES
FOR ITS MILITARY SUPPORT, AND
SIGNAL IT WAS READY TO PURCHASE
MORE JAVELINS. ON THAT DATE, YOU
GOT INQUIRIES OR YOUR STAFF GOT
INQUIRIES FROM SOMEONE AT THE
UKRAINIAN EMBASSY WHO WAS
CONCERNED ABOUT THE STATUS OF
THE MILITARY ASSISTANCE, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT, I WOULD SAY
SPECIFICALLY THE UKRAINIAN
EMBASSY STAFF ASKED WHAT IS
GOING ON WITH UKRAINIAN SECURITY
ASSISTANCE?
>>
DID THAT NOTE TO YOU THAT
SOMETHING WAS IN FACT GOING ON
WITH IT?
>> YES, SIR.
>> AMBER THAT IS THE TESTIMONY.
THIS TIMELINE THAT YOU ARE
TALKING ABOUT IS VERY IMPORTANT
FOR CONGRESS TO GET THEIR MINDS
AROUND AND ALSO IMPORTANT FOR
JOURNALISTS TO BE ABLE TO DIGEST
AND PUT THE PUZZLE
PIECES TOGETHER. I'M CURIOUS TO
HEAR WHAT YOU THINK, AMBER, HOW
DOES THE AMERICAN PUBLIC MAKE
SENSE OF ALL OF THIS? AS THEY
READ THE HEADLINES THIS MORNING
ABOUT YESTERDAY'S TESTIMONY, AS
THEY WATCH AND TUNE IN TO SEE
WHAT HAPPENS THIS MORNING, I
ONE POINT WHAT POINT DOES THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC AND SORT OF
RELATE WAY IN AND THAT THE
REPRESENTATIVES AND SENATORS
KNOW WHERE THEY ARE FALLING ON
THIS QUESTION OF WHETHER THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
SHOULD
BE IMPEACHED? AND WHAT ARE THE
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT SHOULD
INCLUDE THINGS LIKE BRIBERY, OR
OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE?
>> I THINK THAT IS A GREAT
QUESTION, ARGUABLY THE MOST
IMPORTANT. WE STARTED THESE
PUBLIC HEARINGS WITH THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE LARGELY
SUPPORTING THE IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY, A MAJORITY, IN THE
50% RANGE. BUT WHEN YOU ASKED
SHOULD PRESIDENT TRUMP BE
IMPEACHED AND REMOVED
FROM OFFICE? IT WAS SPLIT RIGHT
DOWN THE MIDDLE ACCORDING TO A
WASHINGTON POST/ABC NEWS POLL.
YES, 49 NO. WHAT CHANGES AFTER
TWO WEEKS OF A STEADY, STEADY
DRUMBEAT OF I THOUGHT WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS ACCUSED OF
DOING WAS WRONG AND THE PEOPLE
LIKE ORDERED SOMEONE SAYING I
THOUGHT PRESIDENT TRUMP TOLD ME
TO DO IT? I SENSE THAT THERE IS
LIKELY
A FATIGUE FROM MANY, MANY HOURS
OF HEARINGS SANDWICHED INTO ONE
OR TWO WEEKS. WE REPORTERS ARE
LISTENING TO EVERY WORD,
AMERICANS I DON'T
THINK OUR ESPECIALLY BECAUSE
THESE ARE HAPPENING IT TO THE
WORKDAY. AS OPPOSED TO THE
WATERGATE IMPEACHMENT HEARINGS
THAT HAPPENED IN THE EVENING.
THAT BEING SAID, HEADLINES ARE
STILL COMING OUT. WHITE HOUSE
AIDE SAYS HE
THINKS THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
ASKED FOR POLITICAL FAVORS AND A
PHONE CALL, ALEXANDER VINDMAN. A
TRUMP APPOINTEE SAID THAT HE
THOUGHT THERE WAS A QUID PRO
QUO. I ASSUME WE
WILL HEAR SIMILAR DAMAGING
INFORMATION FROM FIONA HILL,
ANOTHER WHITE HOUSE AIDE. EVEN
WITNESSES THAT REPUBLICANS HAVE
CALLED HAVEN'T BEEN PARTICULARLY
PARTICIPATORY TO REPUBLICAN
EFFORTS TO UNDERMINE THE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY SAYING I DO
THINK IT WAS WRONG FOR A
PRESIDENT TO INVESTIGATE HIS
POLITICAL OPPONENT WHEN THEY'RE
ASKED A HYPOTHETICAL ABOUT
THIS. SO, THE WASHINGTON POST,
ABC NEWS, AND OTHER OUTLETS WILL
BE POLLING AFTER THIS TO THE
EXTENT OF IS THERE ANY SUPPORT
IN FAVOR
OF REMOVING PRESIDENT TRUMP FROM
OFFICE? THAT COULD GO A LONG WAY
TO INFORMING HOUSE REPUBLICANS
WHO MIGHT BE ON THE FENCE  ABOUT
WHETHER TO VOTE TO IMPEACH
TRUMP, IF THERE ARE ANY. AND
THEN FROM THERE, I DON'T SEE ANY
BREAK IN THE DEFENSES AMONG
SENATE REPUBLICANS AND
SUPPORTING TRUMP, I WILL NOT
PREDICT THIS IS ENTIRELY
PARTYLINE IF PUBLIC OPINION CAN
BE SWAYED SIGNIFICANTLY BY THESE
PUBLIC
IMPEACHMENT HEARINGS.
>> WE ARE SEEING CHAIRMAN SCHIFF
SIT DOWN AT THE DAIS, DEMOCRATS
ARE COMING INTO THE ROOM. WE
WILL BE CONTINUING TO WATCH FOR
WHEN THE REST OF THE COMMITTEE
GET SEATED AND THE WITNESSES
COME INTO THE ROOM AS WELL. ONCE
THAT HAPPENS WE WILL GO BIG
PICTURE ON THAT SO WE DON'T MISS
ANY OF THE
ACTION HAPPENING.
THIS ROOM HAS SEEN SO MUCH
DRAMATIC TESTIMONY OVER THE PAST
TWO WEEKS. I WANT TO PLAY A
LITTLE BIT OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
RESPONSE YESTERDAY. I THINK THE
TAPE PRETTY MUCH SAYS IT ALL,
LET'S PLAY IT.
>> WAS GOING ON IN TERMS OF
TESTIMONY WITH AMBASSADORS
ONLINE. SONDLAND. I JUST NOTICED
ONE THING, AND I WOULD SAY THAT
MEANS IT'S ALL OVER. WHAT DO YOU
WANT FROM UKRAINE? HE
ASKS ME. SCREAMING. WHAT DO YOU
WANT FROM UKRAINE? BUT, HERE IS
MY RESPONSE. IF YOU WANT FAKE
NEWS OR IF YOU WANT FAKE NEWS
YOU WOULD COVER IT PROPERLY. I
SAID TO THE AMBASSADOR IN
RESPONSE "I WANT NOTHING, I WANT
NOTHING, I WANT NO QUID PRO QUO
, TELL PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO DO
THE RIGHT THING." HERE IS MY
ANSWER, I
WANT NOTHING. "I WANT NOTHING, I
WANT NOTHING, I WANT NO QUID PRO
QUO,  TELL PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO
DO THE RIGHT THING." THAT HE
SAYS "THIS IS THE FINAL WORD
FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, "I WANT NOTHING."
>> LET'S GET YOUR RESPONSE TO
WHAT THE PRESIDENT WAS DOING. A
DRAMATIC READING OF YESTERDAY,
ESSENTIALLY REENACTING THE
HEARING. WHAT IS YOUR RESPONSE
TO HOW THE PRESIDENT IS ALERT
DELIVERED THAT INFORMATION, AND
HOW WHAT HIS PERSPECTIVE IS?
>> THAT WAS AN INTERESTING
MOMENT, OUR PHOTOGRAPHER AT THE
WASHINGTON POST GOT AN IMAGE OF
THE NOTES HE WAS CARRYING
WRITTEN IN HIS DISTINCTIVE
HANDWRITING AND A BLACK SHARPIE
SAYING "I WANT NOTHING,  I WANT
NOTHING, I WANT TO KNOW NO QUID
PRO QUO."  IT IS CLEAR WHAT
TRUMP WANTED TO EMPHASIZE WAS
HIS
CONVERSATION THAT
GORDON SONDLAND RECOUNTED TO
LAWMAKERS, HE SAID WHEN THIS
BECAME A MAJOR REPUBLICAN
TALKING POINT THAT WHEN HE ASKED
DONALD TRUMP ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF A QUID PRO QUO,
TRUMP DENIED IT.  THAT IS WHAT
THE CONSERVATIVE MEDIA PICKED UP
ON YESTERDAY. THE ENTIRE SORT OF
FOX NEWS WORLD HAD A VERY
DIFFERENT MESSAGE THAN THE
MAINSTREAM MEDIA ABOUT THOSE
HEARINGS. THEY SAID A PARTICULAR
THAT, IN FACT, GORDON SONDLAND'S
TESTIMONY WAS THE NAIL ON THE
COFFIN NOT FOR TRUMP'S CHANCES
IN THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY BUT
IN THE IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY ITSELF. WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT PUBLIC OPINION ON WHAT IS
HAPPENING HERE, WE HAVE TO
REMEMBER THAT IT REALLY DEPENDS
ON WHERE AMERICANS GET THEIR
NEWS. DEPENDING UPON WHAT THEY
ARE WATCHING, HOW MUCH THEY ARE
PROCESSING THE INFORMATION. THEY
ARE GOING TO BE ABSORBING TWO
DIFFERENT MESSAGES FROM THE TWO
PARTIES.
>> AMBER, YESTERDAY WE
TALKED ABOUT HOW IT TOOK THEM A
LITTLE WHILE TO REACT AND
DEVELOP A STRATEGY FOR
COUNTERING WHAT GORDON SONDLAND
WAS SAYING. BUT, HOW ARE
REPUBLICANS HOPING TO GO INTO
THE WEEKEND AND THE THANKSGIVING
RECESS WITH THE WIND AT THEIR
BACK?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THEY HAVE THE
WIND AT THEIR BACK RIGHT NOW
AFTER THESE TWO WEEKS OF
HEARINGS? I THINK, PRIVATELY THE
DUST
>> AMBER YOU WOULD NOT KNOW THAT
FROM TALKING TO THEM. I WOULD
LOVE TO HEAR FROM YOU WHAT
YOU'RE HEARING PRIVATELY VERSUS
WHAT THEY ARE SAYING PUBLICLY.
THE WAY THEY ARE REACTING TO IT,
YOU WOULD THINK THE PRESIDENT
SAYING NO QUID PRO QUO MEANT
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING HERE WAS
WRONG.  AS AS PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
POINTING OUT, IF YOU'RE
MURDERING SOMEONE AND SAYING I
AM NOT MURDERING THEM, ISN'T IT
STILL A CRIME? BREAK IT DOWN FOR
US WHAT YOU'RE HEARING
PRIVATELY.
>> OUR
WHITE HOUSE REPORTERS AND
CONGRESSIONAL REPORTERS HAVE
TALKED PRIVATELY TO WHITE HOUSE
AIDES AND PEOPLE ON CAPITOL HILL
WHO HAVE SAID I SEE THE GORDON
SONDLAND TESTIMONY IS BAD FOR
US. THAT WASN'T HELPFUL FOR HIM
TO GO OUT THERE AND
ESSENTIALLY HINT AT IMPLICATING
THE PRESIDENT. I THINK HE WALKED
A FINE LINE ON THAT. WITH THAT
BEING SAID, YOU ARE RIGHT, THEY
ARE FULL FRONT AND CENTER,
DEFENDING THE PRESIDENT, RAISING
THE VOICES, TRYING TO UNDERMINE
THESE WITNESSES BY PULLING A
LITTLE THREADS OF THEIR STORY.
THEY
ARE THROWING A LOT OF STUFF OUT
THERE BUT A COMMON THEME I HEAR
IS THAT NONE OF THESE WITNESSES
CAN SAY PRESIDENT TRUMP DIRECTLY
TOLD ME TO PUT PRESSURE ON THE
UKRAINIANS. THE PROBLEM WITH
THAT IS FACTUALLY, PRESIDENT
TRUMP IS NOT A RELIABLE WITNESS.
HE HAS EVERY INCENTIVE TO NOT
GET IMPEACHED,
AND THEREFORE, TO TELL GORDON
SONDLAND EVEN IN HIS PRIVATE
PHONE CALL IN SEPTEMBER THERE
WAS NO QUID PRO QUO.  GORDON
SONDLAND, UNDER QUESTIONING FROM
REPUBLICANS LAWYERS, WHO ASKED
HIM, HOW DO YOU KNOW RUDY
GIULIANI, TRUMP'S PERSONAL
LAWYER, WAS TELLING YOU WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTED? SONDLAND
SIMPLY SAID , THE PRESIDENT TOLD
US GO TALK TO MY LAWYER RUDY
GIULIANI. SO
IF GIULIANI TELLS US TO DO
SOMETHING, I WILL ASSUME IT IS
COMING FROM THE PRESIDENT. THERE
IS A COMMONSENSE ARGUMENT,
DEMOCRATS AND
THEIR WITNESSES HAVE HELPED THEM
MAKE THAT THIS WAS COMING FROM
TRUMP, THAT REPUBLICANS LACK
RIGHT
NOW. BUT, I SEE ABSOLUTELY NO
INDICATION OF ANY REPUBLICAN
DEFECTIONS AT THE END OF THE
WEEK. SAME THING AS WE SAW AT
THE BEGINNING OF THIS WEEK.
>> WE ARE KEEPING AN EYE ON THE
HEARING ROOM. ELISE, I WANT TO
BRING YOU IN AND TALK TO YOU
ABOUT WHAT ELSE GORDON SONDLAND
SAID YESTERDAY. HE PLACED
POMPEO, THE VICE PRESIDENT
FIRMLY IN THE LOOP, HOW MUCH
JEOPARDY ARE THEY IN AT THIS
POINT?
>> IT IS INTERESTING. THOSE WERE
VERY IMPORTANT POINTS TO GORDON
SONDLAND'S TESTIMONY. THEY
CALLED INTO QUESTION,
DEMOCRATS CHOICE TO COMPRESS
THIS TIMELINE FOR THE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY, AND PERHAPS
END THE PUBLIC HEARINGS TODAY?
WE DON'T KNOW IF THERE WILL BE
MORE PUBLIC HEARINGS PAST WHAT
WE SEE THIS MORNING. SO FAR, THE
BULK OF THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION, VIRTUALLY
EVERYONE EXCEPT THOSE WITNESSES,
HAS REFUSED TO COOPERATE WITH
INQUIRIES AND SUBPOENAS FROM
IMPEACHMENT INVESTIGATORS. IT IS
VERY UNLIKELY THAT THE PEOPLE
WHO, PERHAPS, TRUMP WAS BEING
MORE CANDID WITH LIKE A
SECRETARY OF STATE, LIKE VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE,  LIKE HIS
ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF MICK
MULVANEY, WILL BE DEPOSED BY
INVESTIGATORS OR INDEED GRILLED
BEFORE THE PUBLIC THE WAY WE
HAVE SEEN THESE OTHER
IMPEACHMENT WITNESSES BE. I
THINK IT IS VITAL FOR DEMOCRATS
TO UNDERSTAND WHAT WAS GOING ON
AT THE HIGHER LEVEL. WHETHER
THEY EVER WILL IS AN OPEN
QUESTION. I THINK WE WILL SEE
HOW MUCH THEY FEEL THEY HAVE
ONCE
THIS PROCESS MOVES FROM THE
INTELLIGENCE AND OVERSIGHT AND
JUDICIARY COMMITTEES OR FOREIGN
AFFAIRS COMMITTEES, EXCUSE ME,
WHERE IT IS NOW TO THE HOUSE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE WHERE
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT WILL BE
DRAFTED. THOSE ARTICLES WILL
REFLECT WHAT DEMOCRATS FEEL IS
THE BEST CASE. WE DON'T QUITE
KNOW WHAT THAT CASE IS YET.
>> OKAY, THANK YOU
SO MUCH. YOU KNOW, AS SOON AS
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT
ARE DRAFTED AND VOTED ON BY THE
HOUSE FLOOR, IT DOES TURN OVER
TO THE SENATE. THEN WE'LL SEE
ESSENTIALLY A TRIAL, WE ARE
WATCHING TO SEE WHAT UNFOLDS IN
THE SENATE THAT COULD SET UP
MORE DRAMATIC DAYS AND DRAMATIC
TESTIMONY. LET'S GO NOW TO THE
HEARING ROOM LIVE WHERE CHAIRMAN
SCHIFF IS ABOUT TO GAVEL IN.  WE
WILL BRING THE HEARING TO LIVE
IN AN UNINTERRUPTED LIFE
THROUGHOUT THE MORNING. STAY
TUNED MORE COVERAGE FROM THE
WASHINGTON POST.
>> THE COMMITTEE WILL COME TO
ORDER. GOOD
MORNING EVERYONE, THIS IS THE
SEVENTH IN A SERIES OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS THE COMMITTEE WILL BE
HOLDING AS A PART OF THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY. WE ARE AUTHORIZED TO
DECLARE A RECESS OF THE
COMMITTEE AT ANYTIME. THERE IS A
QUORUM PRESENT, WE WILL PROCEED
TODAY IN THE SAME FASHION AS OUR
OTHER HEARINGS. I WILL MAKE AN
OPENING STATEMENT AND THEN
RANKING MEMBER NUNES  WILL MAKE
A STATEMENT AND THEN WILL RETURN
TO OUR WITNESSES FOR THEIR
OPENING STATEMENTS AND
THEN TO QUESTIONS. AUDIENCE
MEMBERS WE WELCOME YOU AND
RESPECT YOUR INTEREST IN BEING
CARE, IN TURN WE ASK FOR YOUR
RESPECT AS WE PROCEED WITH
TODAY'S HEARING. IT IS THE
INTENTION OF THE COMMITTEE TO
PROCEED WITHOUT DISRUPTIONS. AS
CHAIRMAN I WILL TAKE ALL
NECESSARY STEPS TO ENSURE THE
COMMITTEE IS RUN IN ACCORDANCE
WITH HOUSE RULES AND HOUSE
RESOLUTION 660. WITH THAT I NOW
RECOGNIZE MYSELF TO GIVE AN
OPENING STATEMENT IN THE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY INTO GENTLE
J TRUMP, THE 45th PRESIDENT OF
THE
UNITED STATES. YESTERDAY
MORNING, THE COMMITTEE HEARD
FROM AMBASSADOR GORDON SONDLAND.
THE AMERICAN AMBASSADOR TO THE
EUROPEAN UNION, THE DE FACTO
LEADER OF THE THREE AMIGOS. HAD
REGULAR ACCESS TO PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP AND PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY,
TWO INVESTIGATIONS. THE FIRST
INVESTIGATION WAS OF A
DISCREDITED COMPUTER'S
CONSPIRACY THEORY THAT UKRAINE,
NOT RUSSIA, WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR
INTERFERING IN OUR 2016
ELECTION. THE SECOND
INVESTIGATION WAS INTO THE
VERTICAL RIVAL TRUMP APPARENTLY
FEARED MOST, JOE BIDEN. TRUMP
SOUGHT TO WEAKEN BIDEN AND TO
REFUTE THE FACT THAT HIS OWN
ELECTION HAD BEEN HELPED BY
RUSSIAN HACKING AND DUMPING
OPERATION, AND RUSSIAN SOCIAL
MEDIA CAMPAIGN DIRECTED BY
VANDEMERE PUTIN. TRUMP'S SCHEME
STOOD IN CONTRAST TO THE
LONG-STANDING BIPARTISAN FOREIGN
POLICY OF UNITED DATES. BY
UNDERMINING MILITARY AND SOMATIC
SUPPORT FOR A KEY ALLY AND
SETBACK U.S. ANTICORRUPTION
EFFORTS
IN UKRAINE. IN CONDITIONING A
MEETING WITH ZELENSKY AND THEN
MILITARY AID ON SECURING AN
INVESTIGATION OF HIS RIVAL ,
TRUMP PUT HIS PERSONAL AND LOCAL
INTERESTS ABOVE UNITED STATES AS
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND WOULD LATER
TELL DAVID HOLMES  IMMEDIATELY
AFTER SPEAKING TO THE PRESIDENT,
TRUMP DID NOT GIVE AN EXPLETIVE
ABOUT UKRAINE. HE CARES ABOUT
BIG STUFF, THAT BENEFITS HIM,
LIKE THE BIDEN INVESTIGATION
THAT GIULIANI WAS PUSHING. DAVID
HOLMES IS HERE WITH US TODAY. HE
IS A FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER
CURRENTLY SERVING AS THE "CANCER
AT THE U.S. EMBASSY IN KIEV.
ALSO WITH US IS DR. FIONA HILL
WHO IS THE NATIONAL SECURITY
SENIOR DIRECTOR FOR EUROPEAN AND
RUSSIAN AFFAIRS COORDINATES
EUROPEAN POLICY
TOWARD UKRAINE. AFTER LEFT THE
NFC IN JULY AFTER MORE THAN TWO
YEARS IN THAT POSITION.  DR.
HILL AND MR. HOLMES PROVIDE A
UNIQUE PERSPECTIVE ON ISSUES TO
UKRAINE. DR. HILL FROM
WASHINGTON, D.C. AND MR. HOLMES
FROM ON THE GROUND IN KIEV.  IN
EARLY 2019, DR. HILL BECAME
CONCERNED WITH THE INCREASING
PROMINENCE OF RUDY GIULIANI, THE
PRESIDENT'S PERSONAL
THE WIRE LAWYER,, WHO WAS AS SHE
HAS TESTIFIED, ASSERTING, QUITE
FREQUENTLY ON TELEVISION AND
PUBLIC APPEARANCES THAT HE HAD
BEEN GIVEN SOME AUTHORITY OVER
MATTERS RELATED TO UKRAINE. SHE
WAS NOT ALONE IN HER CONCERNS,
HER BOSS, JOHN BOLTON, WAS ALSO
PAYING ATTENTION AS WERE OTHER
NFC AS THE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
INCLUDING HOLMES AT THE U.S.
EMBASSY IN KIEV.  BOLTON VIEWED
GIULIANI AS A HAND GRENADE THAT
WAS GOING TO BLOW
EVERYBODY UP. AND WAS POWERLESS
TO PREVENT THE FORMER MAYOR FROM
ENGINEERING FORMER U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE MARIA YOU
ONE OF WHICH
IS FIRING. MARIA YOVANOVITCH
FIRING.  BY NAME, AS A U.S.
AMBASSADOR, AND THE SCOPE OF THE
AND ALLEGATIONS LEVELED AGAINST
HER. YOVANOVITCH'S
DISMISSAL AS A RESULT OF
GIULIANI SMEAR CAMPAIGN WAS ONE
OF SEVERAL THINGS THAT UNSETTLED
DR. HILL. ANOTHER WAS THE ROLE
OF GORDON SONDLAND, WHO EMERGED
AS A KEY PLAYER IN UKRAINIAN
POLICY
IN MAY, WHEN HE WAS NAMED AS A
PART OF THE U.S. DELEGATION LED
BY SECRETARY RICK PERRY FOR
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S
INAUGURATION. LIEUTENANT COLONEL
ALEXANDER VINDMAN ALSO ATTENDED
THE INAUGURATION, AND AS HOLMES
RECALLS, DURING A MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY, TOOK THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ADVISE THE NEW
UKRAINIAN LEADER TO STAY OUT OF
U.S. DOMESTIC POLITICS. ANOTHER
CONCERN THAT AROSE FOR DR. HILL
AROUND THIS TIME WAS A DISCOVERY
OF A POTENTIAL NFC BACK CHANNEL
ON UKRAINE. HILL LEARNED THAT AN
NFC STAFF MEMBER WHO DO NOT WORK
ON UKRAINE AND, FOR HER MAY HAVE
BEEN PROVIDING UKRAINE -RELATED
INFORMATION TO PRESIDENT TRUMP ,
THE DOCTOR WAS NOT MADE
AWARE OF. ACCORDING TO HOLMES,
FOLLOWING THE ZELENSKY
INAUGURATION,  SONDLAND AND
PERRY
TO  A VERY ACTIVE AND
CONTROVERSIAL ROLE IN FORMING
OUR PRIORITIES FOR THE NEW
ZELENSKY ADMINISTRATION AND
PERSONALLY REACHING OUT TO
PRESENT ZELENSKY AND HIS SENIOR
TEAM.  SONDLAND'S NEWFOUND
ASSERTIVENESS ALSO CONCERNED DR.
HILL  WHO PREVIOUSLY ENJOYED
A CORDIAL WORKING RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE AMBASSADOR. IN 2018
HILL HAD
A BLOWUP WITH SONDLAND WHEN HE
TOLD HER THAT HE WAS IN CHARGE
OF UKRAINE POLICY. DR. HILL
TESTIFIED THAT SONDLAND GOT
TESTY WITH ME AND I SAID WHO HAS
PUT YOU IN CHARGE OF IT?  HE
SAID, THE PRESIDENT. ON JULY
10th, DR. HILL WAS A PART OF A
MEETING AT THE WHITE HOUSE WITH
A GROUP OF U.S. AND UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS,  INCLUDING BOLTON,
SONDLAND, AND ENERGY SECRETARY
PERRY , ANOTHER OF THE
THREE AMIGOS. THE MEETING WAS
INTENDED, AMONG OTHER THINGS, A
CHANCE TO GET
THE UKRAINIANS A CHANCE TO
CONVEY THAT THEY WERE ANXIOUS TO
SET UP A NEW MEETING, A FIRST
MEETING, BETWEEN THE PRESIDENT
AND PRESIDENT TRUMP.
SONDLAND  ALERTED THE GROUP THAT
WHITE HOUSE MEETINGS SOUGHT BY
THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT WITH
TRUMP WOULD HAPPEN IF UKRAINE
UNDERTOOK CERTAIN
INVESTIGATIONS. HEARING THIS,
BOLTON ABRUPTLY ENDED
THE MEETING. UNDETERRED,
SONDLAND BROUGHT THE UKRAINIAN
DELEGATION AND THE NFC DIRECTOR
FOR
THE UKRAINE, ALEXANDER VINDMAN
DOWNSTAIRS TO ANOTHER PART OF
THE WHITE HOUSE WHERE THEY WERE
LATER JOINED  BY DR. HILL. IN
THE SECOND MEETING, SONDLAND WAS
MORE EXPLICIT.  UKRAINE NEEDED
TO CONDUCT INVESTIGATIONS IF
THEY WERE TO GET A MEETING AT
ALL. BOLTON DIRECTED DR. HILL TO
REPORT THIS TO NFC LEGAL ADVISOR
JOHN EISENBERG, TELLING HER YOU
GO AND TELL JOHN EISENBERG THEN
I AM NOT A PART OF WHATEVER DRUG
DEAL SONDLAND AND MULVANEY ARE
COOKING UP ON THIS.  YOU GO
AHEAD AND TELL HIM WHAT YOU HAVE
HEARD AND WHAT I HAVE SAID. DR.
HILL DID SO, AS DID THE TENANT
COLONEL VINDMAN WHO SEPARATELY
APPROACHED  THE SAME LAWYERS
WITH HIS CONCERNS. ON JULY 18th,
THE DAY BEFORE DR. HILL LEFT HER
POST AT THE NFC, HOLMES
PARTICIPATED IN A SECURE
INTERAGENCY VIDEOCONFERENCE
ON UKRAINE. TOWARDS THE END OF
THE MEETING, A REPRESENTATIVE
FROM THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT
AND BUDGET ANNOUNCED THE FLOW OF
NEARLY $400 MILLION IN SECURITY
ASSISTANCE FOR UKRAINE WAS BEING
HELD UP. THE ORDER HAD COME FROM
THE PRESIDENT, AND HAD BEEN
CONVEYED BY MICK MULVANEY
WITHOUT
FURTHER EXPLANATION.
HOLMES, UNAWARE OF THE CODE
PRIOR TO THE CALL, WAS SHOCKED.
HE THOUGHT THE SUSPENSION OF AID
WAS SIGNIFICANTLY WERE WAS
SIGNIFICANT UNDERMINING WHAT HE
UNDERSTOOD TO BE A LONG-STANDING
NATIONAL SECURITY GO IN
THE UKRAINE. ONE WEEK LATER, ON
JULY 25th, PRESIDENT TRUMP SPOKE
WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY BY
PHONE. WHEN PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
BROUGHT UP U.S. MILITARY
SUPPORT, AND NOTED THAT UKRAINE
WOULD LIKE TO BUY MORE JAVELIN
ANTITANK MISSILES, TRUMP
RESPONDED BY SAYING I WOULD LIKE
FOR YOU TO DO AS A FAVOR THOUGH.
TRUMP THEN REQUESTED THAT
ZELENSKY INVESTIGATE  THE
DISCREDITED CONSPIRACY THEORY
THAT UKRAINE INTERFERED IN THE
2016 ELECTION. EVEN
MORE OMINOUSLY,  TRUMP ASKED
ZELENSKY TO LOOK INTO THE
BIDENS.  NEITHER REQUEST HAVE
BEEN INCLUDED IN THE OFFICIAL
TALKING POINTS WITH A CALL
PREPARED BY THE NFC STAFF. BUT
BOTH WERE IN DONALD TRUMP'S
PERSONAL INTEREST AND THE
INTEREST OF HIS 2020 REELECTION
CAMPAIGN. THE UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT KNEW ABOUT BOTH IN
ADVANCE, IN PART BECAUSE OF
EFFORTS BY AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
AND  VOLKER TO MAKE THEM AWARE
OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S DEMANDS.
THE NEXT DAY, JULY 26th  IN
KIEV, HOLMES SERVED AS A
NOTETAKER  DURING A MEETING
BETWEEN BILL TAYLOR, VOLKER,
SONDLAND,  PRESENT ZELENSKY AND
OTHER  SENIOR UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS. ZELENSKY SAID ON THE
PREVIOUS DAY'S CALL  THAT ON THE
PREVIOUS DAY'S CALL, PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD SPOKE THREE TIMES
RAISED SOME VERY SENSITIVE
ISSUES THAT HE WOULD HAVE TO
FOLLOW UP ON THOSE ISSUES WHEN
THEY MET IN PERSON. ALTHOUGH HE
DID NOT REALIZE IT AT THE TIME,
HOLMES CAME TO UNDERSTAND THAT
THE SENSITIVE ISSUES WHERE THE
INVESTIGATIONS THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP DEMANDED ON THE JULY 25th
CALL. FOLLOWING THE
MEETING WITH ZELENSKY, HE
ACCOMPANIED SONDLAND TO A
SEPARATE MEETING WITH  THE
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT'S TOP
ADVISERS,  ANDRIY
YERMAK.  HOLMES WAS NOT ALLOWED
INTO THE MEETING, AND WAITED FOR
30 MINUTES WHILE SONDLAND  AND
THE UKRAINIAN MET ALONE, WITHOUT
ANY NOTETAKERS TO RECORD WHAT
THEY SAID. AFTER THE MEETING,
SONDLAND, HOLMES,
AND  TWO OTHER STATE DEPARTMENT
STAFF WENT TO LUNCH AT A
RESTAURANT NEARBY AND SAT ON AN
OUTDOOR TERRACE. AT SOME POINT
DURING THE MEAL, SONDLAND PULLED
OUT HIS CELL PHONE,  A CALL TO
THE WHITE HOUSE, AND ASKED TO BE
CONNECTED TO THE PRESIDENT. WHEN
TRUMP CAME ON THE LINE, HOLMES
COULD HEAR THE PRESIDENT'S VOICE
CLEARLY. HE RECALLED THAT "THE
PRESIDENT VOICE WAS VERY LOUD
AND RECOGNIZABLE
AND AMBASSADOR SONDLAND HELD THE
PHONE AWAY FROM HIS EAR FOR A
PERIOD OF TIME  PRESUMABLY
BECAUSE OF THE LOUD VOLUME."
SONDLAND SAID HE WAS CALLING
FROM KYIV,  KIEV. HE TOLD THE
PRESIDENT THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY LOVES YOUR  . HOLMES
THEN HEARD PRESIDENT TRUMP ASK
SO HE'S GOING TO DO THE
INVESTIGATION? SONDLAND  REPLIED
HE IS GOING TO DO IT ADDING THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WILL DO
ANYTHING YOU
ASK HIM. AFTER THE CALL ENDED,
HOLMES TOOK THE OPPORTUNITY TO
ASK SONDLAND FOR HIS CANDID
IMPRESSION OF THE PRESIDENT'S
VIEWS ON UKRAINE.  IT WAS AT
THIS POINT THAT SONDLAND
REVEALED THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
DOESN'T GIVE A EXPLETIVE ABOUT
UKRAINE. THE PRESIDENT ONLY
CARES ABOUT BIG STAFF STUFF THAT
BENEFITS THE PRESIDENT, LIKE THE
BIDEN INVESTIGATION THAT MR.
GIULIANI WAS PUSHING. A
MONTH LATER NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR BOLTON TRAVELED TO KIEV.
BETWEEN MEETINGS WITH UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS, HOLMES HEARD BOLTON
EXPRESS TO AMBASSADOR BILL
TAYLOR HIS A FRUSTRATION ABOUT
MR. GIULIANI'S WITH THE
PRESIDENT. WILL TO MAKE CLEAR
THERE WAS NOTHING HE COULD DO
ABOUT IT. BOLTON FURTHER STATED
THAT THE HOLD ON SECURITY
ASSISTANCE WOULD NOT BE LISTED
LIFTED PRIOR TO THE MEETING VIA
ZELENSKY AND PRESIDENT TRUMP IN
WARSAW  AND WOULD HANG ON
WHETHER ZELENSKY WAS ABLE TO
FAVORABLY  IMPRESS
PRESIDENT TRUMP. TRUMP CANCELED
HIS TRIP TO WARSAW BUT OTHERS
CONTINUE TO PRESS FOR A PUBLIC
ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE OPENING OF
INVESTIGATIONS BY ZELENSKY. ON
OCTOBER 8th,  TAYLOR TOLD HOLMES
THAT "NOW  THEY ARE INSISTING
ZELENSKY COMMIT  TO THE
INVESTIGATION IN AN INTERVIEW
WITH CNN." HOLMES WAS SURPRISED
THE REQUIREMENT WAS A SPECIFIC
AND CONCRETE. IT AMOUNTED TO
NOTHING LESS THAN "A DEMAND THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY PERSONALLY
COMMIT TO A SPECIFIC
INVESTIGATION OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S POLITICAL RIVAL ON A
CABLE
NEWS CHANNEL."
ON SEPTEMBER 9th, THIS COMMITTEE
ALONG WITH A FOREIGN AFFAIRS
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE LAUNCHED OUR
INVESTIGATION OF  SCHEME,THIS
CORRUPT SCREEN PRESIDENT TRUMP
OR RELEASE THE WHOLE ON AID, TWO
DAYS LATER. AS WE HAVE REVEALED,
UKRAINIANS CANCELED THE SCENE AN
INTERVIEW
SHORTLY THEREAFTER. TWO WEEKS
LATER, ON
SEPTEMBER 25th, THE TRANSCRIPT
OF THE JULY 25th PHONE CALL WAS
RELEASED BY THE WHITE HOUSE AND
THE DETAILS OF THE PRESIDENT'S
GAME SCHEME STARTED COMING INTO
VIEW., AND A COUPLE OF DAYS
CONGRESS WILL DETERMINE WHAT
RESPONSE IS APPROPRIATE, IF THE
PRESIDENT ABUSED HIS POWER AND
INVITED FOREIGN INTERFERENCE
INTO OUR ELECTIONS. IF WE DON'T
DO CONDITION, COURSE, OR BRIBE A
ALLY TO AID HIS ELECTION
CAMPAIGN AND DID SO BY
WITHHOLDING OFFICIAL ACTS, A
WHITE HOUSE MEETING OR HUNDREDS
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS OF
MILITARY AID, IT'LL BE FOR US TO
DECIDE WHETHER THOSE ACTS ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE OFFICE OF
THE PRESIDENCY. I NOW RECOGNIZE
RANKING MEMBER NUNES FOR ANY
REMARKS YOU WOULD LIKE TO MAKE.
>>
THANK YOU. THROUGHOUT THESE
BIZARRE HEARINGS, DEMOCRATS HAVE
STRUGGLED TO MAKE THE CASE THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP COMMITTED SOME
IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE. IN HIS
PHONE CALL WITH UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY. THE OFFENSE
ITSELF CHANGES DEPENDING UPON
THE DAY. RANGING FROM QUID PRO
QUO TO EXTORTION, TO BRIBERY, TO
OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE AND THEN
BACK TO QUID PRO QUO.  IT IS
CLEAR WHAT THE DEMOCRATS HAVE
ENFORCED OR HAVE BEEN FORCED
ONTO THIS CAROUSEL
OF ACCUSATIONS. PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAD GOOD REASON TO BE WARY OF
UKRAINIAN ELECTION MEDDLING
AGAINST HIS CAMPAIGN AND
WIDESPREAD CORRUPTION IN
THAT COUNTRY. PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY, WHO DO NOT EVEN KNOW
AID TO UKRAINE HAD BEEN PAUSED
AT THE TIME OF THE CALL HAS
REPEATEDLY SAID THERE WAS
NOTHING WRONG WITH THE
CONVERSATION. THE AIDE WAS
RESUMED WITHOUT THE UKRAINIANS
TAKING THE ACTIONS THEY WERE
SUPPOSEDLY BEING COERCED INTO
DOING. AID TO UKRAINE UNDER
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS BEEN MUCH
MORE ROBUST THAN IT WAS UNDER
PRESIDENT OBAMA. THANKS TO THE
PROVISION OF JAVELIN
ANTITANK WEAPON. AS NUMEROUS
WITNESSES HAVE TESTIFIED,
TEMPORARY HOLD ON FOREIGN AID
OCCURRED FREQUENTLY FOR MANY
DIFFERENT REASONS. SO HOW DO WE
HAVE AN IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE WHEN
THERE IS NO ACTUAL MISDEED, AND
NO ONE EVEN CLAIMING TO BE A
VICTIM.? THE DEMOCRATS HAVE
TRIED TO SOLVE THIS DILEMMA WITH
A
SIMPLE SLOGAN "HE
GOT CAUGHT." PRESIDENT TRUMP, WE
ARE TO BELIEVE, WAS JUST ABOUT
TO DO SOMETHING WRONG AND
GETTING CAUGHT WAS THE ONLY
REASON HE BACKED DOWN FROM
WHATEVER NEFARIOUS
THOUGHT CRIME THE DEMOCRATS ARE
ACCUSING HIM OF
ALMOST COMMITTEE. I, ONCE AGAIN,
URGE AMERICANS TO CONTINUE TO
CONSIDER THE CREDIBILITY OF THE
DEMOCRATS ON THIS COMMITTEE WHO
ARE NOW HURLING THESE CHARGES.
FOR THE LAST THREE YEARS, IS NOT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WHO GOT CAUGHT,
IT IS THE DEMOCRATS WHO
GOT CAUGHT. THEY
GOT CAUGHT FALSELY CLAIMING THEY
HAD MORE THAN CIRCUMSTANTIAL
EVIDENCE THAT TRUMP COLLUDED
WITH RUSSIANS TO HACK THE 2016
ELECTION. THEY GOT CAUGHT
ORCHESTRATING THIS ENTIRE
FARCE WITH THE WHISTLEBLOWER,
AND LYING ABOUT THEIR SECRET
MEETINGS WITH HIM. THEY GOT
CAUGHT DEFENDING THE FALSE
ALLEGATIONS OF THE STEELE
DOSSIER, WHICH WAS PAID FOR BY
THEM. THEY
GOT CAUGHT BREAKING THEIR
PROMISE THAT IMPEACHMENT WOULD
ONLY GO FORWARD WITH BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT BECAUSE OF HOW DAMAGING
IT IS TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
THEY
GOT CAUGHT RUNNING A SHAM
IMPEACHMENT PROCESS FEATURING
SECRET DEPOSITIONS, HIDDEN
TRANSCRIPTS, AND AN UNENDING
FLOOD OF DEMOCRAT LEAKS TO THE
MEDIA. THEY GOT CAUGHT TRYING TO
OBTAIN NUDE PHOTOS OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP  FROM RUSSIAN PRANKSTERS,
PRETENDING TO BE UKRAINIANS.
AND, THEY GOT CAUGHT
COVERING UP FOR
ALEXANDRA CHALUPA, A DEMOCRATIC
NATIONAL COMMITTEE OPERATIVE WHO
COLLUDED WITH UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS TO SMEAR THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN. BY IMPROPERLY
REDACTING HER NAME
FROM TRANSCRIPTS, AND REFUSING
TO LET AMERICANS HEAR HER
TESTIMONY AS A WITNESS IN
THESE PROCEEDINGS. THAT IS THE
DEMOCRAT'S PITIFUL LEGACY IN
RECENT YEARS. THEY
GOT CAUGHT. MEANWHILE, THERE
SUPPOSES STAR WITNESS TESTIFIED
THAT HE WAS GUESSING THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS TYING
UKRAINIAN AID TO INVESTIGATIONS
DESPITE NO ONE TELLING HIM THAT
WAS TRUE. AND THE PRESIDENT
HIMSELF EXPLICITLY TELLING HIM
THE OPPOSITE, THAT HE WANTED
NOTHING FROM UKRAINE. LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN, UNLESS THE DEMOCRATS
ONCE AGAIN SCRAMBLE THEIR
KANGAROO COURT RULES, TODAY'S
HEARING WORKS THE MERCIFUL END
OF
THE SPECTACLE IN THE IMPEACHMENT
COMMITTEE. FORMALLY KNOWN AS THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE. WHETHER
THE DEMOCRATS REAP THE VERTICAL
BENEFIT THEY WANT FROM THIS
IMPEACHMENT REMAINS TO BE SEEN.
BUT THE DAMAGE THEY HAVE DONE TO
THIS COUNTRY WILL
BE LONG-LASTING. WITH THIS
WRENCHING ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW
THE PRESIDENT, THEY HAVE PITTED
AMERICANS AGAINST ONE ANOTHER
AND POISONED THE MIND OF
FANATICS, WHO ACTUALLY BELIEVE
THE ENTIRE GALAXY OF
BIZARRE ACCUSATIONS THEY HAVE
LEVELED AGAINST THE PRESIDENT
SINCE THE DAY THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE
ELECTED HIM. I SINCERELY HOPE
THE DEMOCRATS END THIS AFFAIR AS
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE SO OUR
NATION CAN BEGIN TO HEAL THE
MANY WOUNDS IT
HAS INFLICTED. PEOPLES FAITH IN
GOVERNMENT, AND THEIR BELIEF
THAT THEIR VOTE COUNTS FOR
SOMETHING HAS BEEN SHAKEN. FROM
THE RUSSIA HOAX, TO THE SHODDY
UKRAINIAN SEQUEL, THE DEMOCRATS
GOT CAUGHT. LET'S HOPE THEY
FINALLY LEARNING LESSON, GIVE
THEIR CONSPIRACY THEORIES A
REST, AND FOCUS ON GOVERNING FOR
A CHANGE. IN ADDITION MR.
CHAIRMAN, PURSUANT TO HOUSE RULE
11 CLASS 2 J 1. REPUBLICANS
LETTER TRANSMIT A MINORITY OF
HEARING, A DAY YOU HAVE BLOCKED
KEY WITNESSES FROM TESTIFYING IN
THIS PARTISAN PEACH MINT
INQUIRY. THIS WILL WAS NOT
DISPLACED, THEREFORE, UNDER
HOUSE RULE 11, CLAUSE 1 LETTER
A, IT APPLIES TO THE DEMOCRAT
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY. WE LOOK
FORWARD TO THE CHAIR PROBABLY
SCHEDULING AN AGREED-UPON TIME
FOR THE MINORITY DAVE HEARINGS
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR FROM KEY
WITNESSES THAT YOU HAVE BLOCKED
FROM TESTIFYING. I'D ALSO LIKE
TO TAKE A QUICK MOMENT ON AN
ASSERTION MS. HILL MADE IN THE
STATEMENT THAT SHE SUBMITTED TO
THIS COMMITTEE. IN WHICH SHE
CLAIMED THAT SOME COMMITTEE
MEMBERS DENY THAT RUSSIA MEDDLED
IN THE
2016 ELECTION. AS I NOTED IN MY
OPENING STATEMENT,
ON WEDNESDAY, AND MARCH 2018
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
WERE PUBLICANS PUBLISHED THE
RESULTS OF A YEAR-LONG
INVESTIGATION INTO RUSSIAN
MEDDLING. THE 240
PAGE REPORT ANALYZED 2016
RUSSIAN MEDDLING CAMPAIGN, THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT REACTION TO AN,
RUSSIAN CAMPAIGNS AND OTHER
COUNTRIES, AND PROVIDED SPECIFIC
RECOMMENDATIONS TO IMPROVE
AMERICAN ELECTION SECURITY. I
HAVE ASKED MY STAFF TO HAND
THESE REPORTS TO OUR TWO
WITNESSES TODAY, JUST SO THEY
CAN HAVE A RECOLLECTION OF
THE MEMORY. AS AMERICA MAY, OR
MAY NOT KNOW, DEMOCRATS REFUSED
TO SIGN ON TO THE REPUBLICAN
REPORT. INSTEAD, THEY DECIDED TO
ADOPT MINORITY VIEWS. FILLED
WITH COLLUSION CONSPIRACY
THEORIES. NEEDLESS TO SAY, IT IS
ENTIRELY POSSIBLE FOR TWO
SEPARATE NATIONS TO ENGAGE IN
ELECTION MEDDLING AT THE SAME
TIME REPUBLICANS BELIEVE WE
SHOULD TAKE MEDDLING SERIOUSLY
BY ALL FOREIGN COUNTRIES,
REGARDLESS OF WHICH CAMPAIGN IS
THE TARGET. I WOULD LIKE TO
SUBMIT FOR THE RECORD A COPY OF
OUR REPORT TITLED "REPORT ON
ACTIVE RUSSIAN MEASURES" I
YELLED BACK. YIELD BACK.
>> TODAY WE ARE JOINED BY DR.
FIONA HILL AND DAVE HOLMES, DR.
FIONA HILL IS A FORMER DEPUTY
ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND
SENIOR DIRECTOR FOR EUROPE AND
RUSSIA ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL. BEFORE RETURNING TO
GOVERNMENT SHE WAS A SENIOR
FELLOW AT THE BROOKINGS
INSTITUTE , WHERE SHE DIRECTED
AT THE CENTER ON THE UNITED
STATES AND EUROPE. PREVIOUSLY
WORKED AT THE NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE COUNCIL, THE REASON
FOUNDATION, AND THE JOHN F.
KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT.
DAVID HOLMES IS THE POLITICAL
COUNSELOR AT THE U.S. EMBASSY IN
KIEV . WHERE HE SERVES AS THE
SENIOR POLICY AND LEGAL ADVISOR
TO AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
WHO TESTIFIED IN THESE HEARINGS.
HE IS A CAREER FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFICER AND PREVIOUSLY SERVED IN
MOSCOW, NEW DELHI, BOGOT AND
HAS ALSO SERVED ON THE STAFF OF
THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL A
SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE UNITED
STATES SECRETARY
OF STATE. TWO FINAL POINTS
BEFORE OUR WITNESSES ARE SWORN,
FIRST WITNESS DEPOSITIONS AS A
PART OF THIS INQUIRY WERE
UNCLASSIFIED IN NATURE AND, ALL
OPEN HEARINGS WILL ALSO BE HELD
AT THE
UNCLASSIFIED LEVEL. ANY
INFORMATION THAT MAY TOUCH
UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION WILL BE
ADDRESSED SEPARATELY. SECOND,
CONGRESS WILL NOT TOLERATE ANY
REPRISAL, THAT THREAT OF
REPRISAL, OR ATTEMPT TO
RETALIATE AGAINST ANY OFFICIAL
FOR TESTIFYING BEFORE CONGRESS
INCLUDING YOU OR ANY OF YOUR
COLLEAGUES. IF YOU WOULD PLEASE
RISE, RAISE YOUR RIGHT HAND, I
WILL BEGIN BY SWEARING
YOU IN.
DO YOU SWEAR OR AFFIRM THAT THE
TESTIMONY YOU ARE ABOUT TO GIVE
IS THE TRUTH, THE WHOLE TRUTH,
AND NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH, SO
HELP YOU GOD? LET THE RECORD
SHOW THAT THE WITNESSES ANSWERED
IN THE AFFIRMATIVE. THANK YOU,
AND YOU MAY BE SEATED. THE
MICROPHONES ARE SENSITIVE. YOU
WILL NEED TO SPEAK DIRECTLY INTO
THEM. WITHOUT OBJECTION YOUR
WRITTEN STATEMENTS WILL BE MADE
A PART OF THE RECORD. WITH THAT,
MR. HOLMES, YOU ARE NOW
RECOGNIZED FOR YOUR OPENING
STATEMENT. WHEN YOU CONCLUDE,
DR. HILL YOU WILL BE IMMEDIATELY
RECOGNIZED AFTER FOR YOUR
OPENING STATEMENT.
>> THANK YOU, GOOD MORNING MR.
CHAIRMAN, RANKING MEMBER NUNES,
AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE. MY
NAME IS DAVID HOLMES I AM A
CAREER FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER.
SINCE AUGUST 2017, I HAVE BEEN
THE FOCAL COUNSELOR AT THE U.S.
EMBASSY IN KIEV,
UKRAINE.  WHILE IT IS AN HONOR
TO APPEAR BEFORE YOU TODAY, I
WANT TO MAKE CLEAR THAT I DO NOT
SEEK THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO TESTIFY TODAY.
SINCE YOU DETERMINED I MAY HAVE
SOMETHING OF VALUE TO THESE
PROCEEDINGS AND ISSUED A
SUBPOENA, IT IS MY OBLIGATION TO
APPEAR AND TELL YOU WHAT
I NOW. INDEED, AS SECRETARY
POMPEO HAS STATED, I HOPE
EVERYONE WHO TESTIFIES WILL DO
SO TRUTHFULLY AND ACCURATELY.
WHEN THEY DO, THE OVERSIGHT ROLE
WILL HAVE BEEN PERFORMED AND I
THINK AMERICA WILL COME TO SEE
WHAT TOOK PLACE. THAT IS MY
ONLY GOAL, TO TESTIFY TRUTHFULLY
AND ACCURATELY TO ENABLE YOU TO
PERFORM THAT ROLE. AND, TO THAT
END, I PUT TOGETHER THE
STATEMENT TO LAYOUT AS BEST I
CAN MY RECOLLECTION OF EVENTS
THAT MAY BE RELEVANT TO
THIS MATTER. BY WAY OF
BACKGROUND, I HAVE SPENT MY
ENTIRE PROFESSIONAL CAREER AS A
FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER. LIKE
MANY OF THE DEDICATED PUBLIC
SERVANTS WHO HAVE TESTIFIED IN
THESE PROCEEDINGS, MY ENTIRE
CAREER HAS BEEN IN THE SERVICE
OF MY COUNTRY. I AM A GRADUATE
OF POMONA COLLEGE IN CLAREMONT,
CALIFORNIA AND RECEIVED DEGREES
IN
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF ST. ANDREWS IN
SCOTLAND AND FROM PRINCETON
AND THROUGH PRESENT SCHOOL OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS. I JOINED THE
SERVICE IN 2002 DURING A
POLITICAL
MERIT-BASED PROCESS UNDER THE
GEORGE W. BUSH ADMINISTRATION
AND HAVE PROBABLY SERVED A
MINISTRATIONS OF BOTH PARTIES
AND WORKED FOR THEIR APPOINTEES
BOTH POLITICAL AND CAREER. PRIOR
TO MY CURRENT POST IN KIEV,
UKRAINE I SERVED IN THE
SECTIONS AND
MOSCOW, RUSSIA. IN WASHINGTON I
SERVED ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL STAFF AS DIRECTOR FOR
AFGHANISTAN. AND AS A SPECIAL
ASSISTANT TO THE UNDER SECRETARY
OF STATE. MY PRIOR OVERSEAS
ASSIGNMENT INCLUDED NEW DELHI,
INDIA, BOGOT, COLOMBIA, AND
KOSOVO. AS THE
FOCAL COUNSELOR AT THE U.S.
EMBASSY IN KIEV, I LEAD THE
PARTICLE SECTION  COVERING
UKRAINE'S INTERNAL POLITICS,
FOREIGN RELATIONS, AND SECURITY
POLICIES. I SERVE AS THE SENIOR
POLICY AMBASSADOR AND ADVISOR TO
THE AMBASSADOR. THE JOB OF THE
EMBASSY POLITICAL COUNSELOR IS
TO GATHER INFORMATION ABOUT THE
HOST COUNTRY'S POLITICAL
LANDSCAPE AND REPORT BACK
TO WASHINGTON, TO REPRESENT U.S.
POLICIES TO FOREIGN CONTACTS AND
TO ADVISE THE AMBASSADOR ON
POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION. IN
THIS ROLE AND AS A SENIOR MEMBER
OF THE TEAM, AND CONTINUALLY
INVOLVED IN ADDRESSING ISSUES AS
THEY ARRIVED. I AM ALSO OFTEN
CALLED UPON TO TAKE NOTES IN
MEETINGS INVOLVING THE
AMBASSADOR OR VISITING SENIOR
U.S. OFFICIALS WITH UKRAINIAN
COUNTERPARTS. FOR THIS REASON I
HAVE BEEN PRESENT IN MANY OF THE
MEETINGS WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
AND HIS ADMINISTRATION, SOME OF
WHICH MAY BE GERMANE TO THIS
INQUIRY. WHILE I'M A LITTLE
COUNSELOR AT THE EMBASSY IT IS
IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT I AM NOT
A POLITICAL APPOINTEE OR ENGAGED
IN U.S. POLITICS IN ANY WAY. IT
IS NOT MY JOB TO COVER OR ADVISE
ON U.S. POLITICS. ON THE
CONTRARY, I AM AN APOLITICAL
FOREIGN-POLICY PROFESSIONAL AND
MY JOB IS TO FOCUS ON THE
POLITICS OF THE COUNTRY IN WHICH
I SERVE, THAT WE CAN BETTER
UNDERSTAND THE LOCAL LANDSCAPE
AND BETTER ADVANCE U.S. NATIONAL
INTEREST THERE. IN FACT, DURING
THE PERIOD THAT WE WILL COVER
TODAY, I COLLEAGUES AND I
FOLLOWED DIRECT
GUIDANCE FROM DOING OUR JOBS,
AND TO STAY CLEAR OF WASHINGTON
POLITICS,
I ARRIVED IN KIEV TO TAKE UP MY
ASSIGNMENT AS POLITICAL
COUNSELOR IN AUGUST 2017, A YEAR
AFTER AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH
RECEIVED HER APPOINTMENT.  FROM
AUGUST 2017 UNTIL HER REMOVAL
FROM POST I WAS HER KEY POLICY
ADVISOR AND DEVELOPED A DEEP
RESPECT FOR HER DEDICATION,
DETERMINATION, DECENCY,
AND PROFESSIONALISM. DURING THIS
TIME, WE WORKED TOGETHER
CLOSELY, SPEAKING MULTIPLE TIMES
PER DAY I ACCOMPANIED AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH  TOO
MANY MEETINGS WITH UKRAINIAN
COUNTERPARTS. OUR WORK IN
UKRAINE FOCUSED ON THREE POLICY
PRIORITIES,
DECENT SECURITY, ECONOMIC GROWTH
AND REFORM, AND ANTICORRUPTION
AND RULE
OF LAW. THESE POLICIES MATCHED
THE THREE CONSISTENT PRIORITIES
OF UKRAINIAN PEOPLE SINCE 2014
AS MEASURED IN PUBLIC OPINION
POLLING. NAMELY AN END TO THE
CONFLICT WITH RUSSIA RESTORES
NATIONAL UNITY
AND INTEGRITY. RESPONSIBLE
ECONOMIC POLICIES THAT DELIVER
EUROPEAN STANDARDS, GROWTH, AND
OPPORTUNITY. AN INFECTIVE
DEDUCTION EFFECTIVE AND
IMPARTIAL RULE. OUR EFFORTS ON
THIS THIRD PRIORITY IT IS DURING
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH'S TENURE
THAT
WHICH  ACHIEVED THE HARD PASSAGE
OF A LAW ESTABLISHING AN
INDEPENDENT COURT TO TRY PUBLIC
CASES. THESE EFFORTS STRAINED
AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH'S  RELATIONSHIPS
WITH THE FORMER PRESIDENT AND
SOME OF HIS ALLIES INCLUDING
PROSECUTOR GENERAL.
THAT WOULD HELP ENSURE THAT NO
UKRAINIANS, HOWEVER POWERFUL,
WERE ABOVE THE LAW. DESPITE HIS
RESISTANCE, THE AMBASSADOR KEPT
PUSHING FOR ANTICORRUPTION AND
OTHER POLICY
TOWARDS UKRAINE. BEGINNING IN
MARCH 2019, THE SITUATION AT THE
EMBASSY AND IN UKRAINE
CHANGED DRAMATICALLY.
SPECIFICALLY, THE THREE
PRIORITIES OF SECURITY, ECONOMY,
AND JUSTICE, AND OUR SUPPORT FOR
UKRAINIAN DEMOCRATIC RESISTANCE
TO RUSSIAN AGGRESSION BECAME
OVERSHADOWED BY A POLITICAL
AGENDA PROMOTED BY FORMER NEW
YORK CITY MAYOR RUDY GIULIANI
AND A CADRE OF OFFICIALS
OPERATING WITH THE DIRECT
CHANNEL TO THE WHITE HOUSE. THAT
CHANGE BEGAN WITH THE EMERGENCE
OF PRESS REPORTS CRITICAL OF
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH  AND
MACHINATIONS OF BY THEN THE
PROSECUTOR GENERAL TO
DISCREDIT HER. IN MID-MARCH
2019, AN EMBASSY COLLEAGUE
LEARNED FROM A UKRAINIAN CONTACT
THAT THE PROSECUTOR GENERAL HAD
COMPLAINED THAT AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH HAD "DESTROYED HIM
WITH HER REFUSAL TO SUPPORT HIM
UNTIL HE FOLLOWED THROUGH WITH
HIS REFORM COMMITMENTS  AND
CEASED USING HIS POSITION FOR
PERSONAL GAIN. IN RETALIATION,
HE MADE A SERIES
OF UNSUPPORTED ALLEGATIONS OF
MAINLY SUGGESTING THAT
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH
IMPROPERLY USED THE EMBASSY TO
FURTHER THE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY. IT WAS THAT THE EMBASSY
HAD ORDERED THE INVESTIGATION OF
A FORMER UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL
SOLELY BECAUSE THE FORMER
OFFICIAL WAS THE MAIN UKRAINIAN
CONTACT OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
AND OF PRESIDENT TRUMP
PERSONALLY. AND THAT THE
EMBASSIES
ALLEGEDLY PRESSURED LUTSENKO'S
PREDECESSOR, SOLELY BECAUSE OF A
COLLECTION BUT
CONNECTION BETWEEN BURISMA AND
FORMER VICE PRESIDENT SON.  MR.
LUTSENKO ALSO CLAIMED HE NEVER
RECEIVED $4.4 MILLION IN U.S.
FUNDS  INTENDED FOR HIS OFFICE.
AND THAT THERE WAS A TAPE OF THE
UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL SAYING THAT
HE WAS TRYING TO HELP HILLARY
CLINTON WIN THE 2016 ELECTION.
FINALLY, MR. LUTSENKO PUBLICLY
CLAIMED  THAT AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH HAD GIVEN HIM  A DO
NOT PROSECUTE LIST, CONTAINING
THE NAMES OF HER SUPPOSED ALLIES
AND ALLOCATION THE STATE
DEPARTMENT CALLED AN OUTRIGHT
FABRICATION AND THAT MR.
LUTSENKO LET  LATER RETRACTED.
MR. LUTSENKO SAID THAT AS A
RESULT OF THESE  ALLEGATIONS,
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH WOULD
FACE SERIOUS PROBLEMS  IN THE
UNITED STATES. PUBLIC OPINION
POLLS INDICATED THAT UKRAINIANS
GENERALLY DO NOT BELIEVE MR.
LUTSENKO'S  ALLEGATIONS AND ON
MARCH 22nd THE PRESIDENT ISSUED
A STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH.
FOLLOWING MR. LUTSENKO'S
ALLEGATIONS  RICHARD GIULIANI
AND OTHERS MADE A NUMBER OF
PUBLIC STATEMENTS CRITICAL OF
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH,
QUESTIONING HER INTEGRITY AND
CALLING FOR HER REMOVAL FROM
OFFICE. MR. GIULIANI WAS ALSO
MAKING FREQUENT PUBLIC
STATEMENTS FOR UKRAINE TO
INVESTIGATE INTERFERENCE IN THE
2016 ELECTION AND ISSUES RELATED
TO BURISMA AND  THE
BIDENS.  ON EXAMPLE MAY 1st,
2019 THE NEW YORK TIMES REPORTED
THAT MR. GIULIANI
HAD "DISCUSSED  THE BURISMA
INVESTIGATION AND ITS
INTERSECTION WITH THE BIDENS
WITH THE OUSTED UKRAINIAN SECURE
GENERAL AND THE
CURRENT PROSECUTOR." ON MAY 9th,
THEN YORK TIMES REPORTED THAT
MR. GIULIANI PLANNED TO TRAVEL
TO UKRAINE TO PURSUE
INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE 2016
ELECTION INTERFERENCE AND INTO
THE INVOLVEMENT OF FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE'S SON  AND A
UKRAINIAN GAS COMPANY. OVER THE
NEXT FEW MONTHS MR. GIULIANI
ISSUED A SERIES OF TWEETS ASKING
"WHY BIDEN SHOULD BE
INVESTIGATED? THE NEW PRESIDENT
OF UKRAINE ZELENSKY FOR BEING
SILENT ON THE 2016 ELECTION  AND
ABIDE IN INVESTIGATIONS." AND
COMPLAINING ABOUT THE NEW YORK
TIMES ATTACKING HIM FOR
"EXPOSING THE BIDENS  HISTORY OF
MAKING MILLIONS FROM
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS." AT THIS
TIME THE UKRAINIAN ELECTION WAS
UPCOMING AND ZELENSKY, WHO HAD
PLAYED IT  PRESIDENT ON
TELEVISION, WAS SURGING. AHEAD
OF LUTSENKO'S ALLY.  ON APRIL
20th I WAS PRESENT FOR
AMBASSADOR
YAMADA  AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH'S
MEETING.  AS IN HER TO PRIOR
MEETINGS I ALSO ATTENDED, THEY
HAD AN
ENTIRELY CORDIAL, PLEASANT
CONVERSATION THAT SIGNALED A
MUTUAL DESIRE TO WORK
TOGETHER. HOWEVER, THE NEGATIVE
NARRATIVES ABOUT AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH HAD GAINED CURRENCY
IN CERTAIN SEGMENTS OF THE
UNITED STATES PRESS .  ON APRIL
26, AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH
DEPARTED FOR WASHINGTON, D.C.
WHERE SHE LEARNED THAT SHE WOULD
BE RECALLED EARLY. THE PROJECT
ALLEGATIONS DIRECTED AT
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH , A
CAREER AMBASSADOR, IS UNLIKE
ANYTHING I HAVE SEEN IN MY
PROFESSIONAL CAREER. FOLLOWING
PRESIDENT ELECT ZELENSKY'S
VICTORY OUR ATTENTION IN THE
EMBASSY  FOCUSED ON GETTING TO
KNOW THE INCOMING ZELENSKY
ADMINISTRATION AND  OPERATIONS
FOR INAUGURATION SCHEDULED MAY
20th, THE SAME DAY THAT
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH DEPARTED
THE POST PERMANENTLY.  IT
QUICKLY
BECAME CLEAR THAT THE WHITE
HOUSE WAS NOT PREPARED TO SHOW
THE LEVEL OF SUPPORT FOR THE LOW
ZELENSKY  ADMINISTRATION THAT WE
INITIALLY ANTICIPATED. IN EARLY
MAY MR. GIULIANI PUBLICLY
ALLEGED THAT MR. ZELENSKY WAS
SURROUNDED BY ENEMIES OF THE
U.S.
PRESENT  PRESIDENT AND CANCELED
A VISIT TO TO THE UKRAINE.
SHORTLY AFTER WE LEARNED THAT
VICE PRESIDENT PENS NO LONGER
PLANNED TO LEAD THE PRESIDENTIAL
DELEGATION TO UKRAINE. THE WHITE
HOUSE THEN WHITTLED DOWN AN
PROPOSED LIST FOR THE OFFICIAL
PRESIDENTIAL DELEGATION TO THE
MIGRATION FROM OVER A DOZEN
INDIVIDUALS TO JUST FIVE.
SECRETARY PERRY AS THE HEAD,
SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR
UKRAINE NEGOTIATIONS KURT VOLKER
REPRESENTING THE STATE
DEPARTMENT, NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL DIRECTOR ALEX AMENDMENT
REPRESENTING THE
WHITE HOUSE, AND TO EVERY ACTING
STRATEGY AFFAIRS JOSEPH
PENNINGTON REPRESENTING THE
EMBASSY AND AMBASSADOR TO THE
EUROPEAN UNION GORDON SONDLAND.
WHILE AMBASSADOR SONDLAND'S
MANDATE AS THE ACCREDITED
AMBASSADOR TO THE EUROPEAN UNION
DID NOT COVER INDIVIDUAL
MEMBER STATES, LET ALONE
NONMEMBER STATES LIKE UKRAINE HE
MADE CLEAR HE HAD DIRECT AND
FREQUENT ACCESS TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND CHIEF OF STAFF MICK
MULVANEY AND PORTRAYED HIMSELF
AS THE CONDUIT TO THE PRESIDENT
AND MR. MULVANEY FOR THIS GROUP.
SECRETARY PERRY, AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND AND AMBASSADOR VOLKER
LATER STYLE THEMSELVES THE
THREE AMIGOS AND MADE IT CLEAR
THEY WERE TO LEAD ON POLICY
COORDINATION WITH THE ZELENSKY
ADMINISTRATION.  AROUND THE SAME
TIME I BECAME AWARE THAT MR.
GIULIANI, A PRIVATE LAWYER, WAS
TAKING A DIRECT ROLE IN
UKRAINIAN DIPLOMACY. ON APRIL
25th, MR. ZELENSKY'S CHILDHOOD
FRIEND AND CAMPAIGN CHAIR  WAS
ULTIMATELY APPOINTED HEAD OF THE
SECURITY SERVICES OF UKRAINE
INDICATED TO ME PRIVATELY THAT
HE HAD BEEN CONTACTED
BY "SOMEONE NAMED GIULIANI THAT
SAID HE WAS ADVISOR TO THE VICE
PRESIDENT." I REPORTED HIS
MESSAGE TO DEPUTY ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE GEORGE KENT.
OVER THE FOLLOWING MONTHS IT
BECAME APPARENT THAT MR.
GIULIANI WAS HAVING A DIRECT
INFLUENCE ON THE FOREIGN POLICY
AGENDA THAT THE THREE AMIGOS
WERE EXECUTING ON THE GROUND IN
UKRAINE. IN FACT, AT ONE POINT
DURING
A VERY PRELIMINARY MEETING OF
THE INAUGURAL DELEGATION,
SOMEBODY WANTED ALLOWED WHY MR.
GIULIANI WAS SO ACTIVE IN THE
MEDIA IN RESPECT TO UKRAINE. MY
RECOLLECTION IS THAT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND STATED "  IT RUDY,EVERY
TIME RUDY GETS INVOLVED, HE GOES
AHEAD AND EFFS EVERYTHING UP."
THE INAUGURATION TOOK PLACE ON
MAY 20th AND I TOOK NOTE. DURING
THE MEETING, SECRETARY PERRY
PASSED PRESENT ZELENSKY
A  LIST THAT PERRY DESCRIBED AS
"PEOPLE HE TRUSTS." CIRCUITRY
PERRY TOLD ZELENSKY THAT HE
COULD SEEK ADVICE FROM PEOPLE ON
THIS LIST  ON ISSUES OF ENERGY
REFORM WHICH WAS THE TOPIC OF
SUBSEQUENT MEETINGS BETWEEN
PERRY
AND KEY UKRAINIAN EXECUTOR
CONTACTS. SOME WERE EXCLUDED BY
THESE MEETINGS FROM CIRCUITRY
PERRY STAFF. ON
MAY 23rd, AMBASSADOR
VOLKER,  AMBASSADOR PERRY,
SECRETARY JOHNSON WHO HAD
ATTENDED THE INAUGURATION THAT
ON THE OFFICIAL DELEGATION
RETURNED TO THE UNITED STATES
AND BRIEFED PRESIDENT TRUMP. ON
MAY 29th PRESIDENT TRUMP SIGNED
A
CONGRATULATORY LETTER TO
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WHICH
INCLUDED AN INVITATION TO VISIT
THE WHITE HOUSE AT AN
UNSPECIFIED DATE. IT IS
IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE VISIT WAS CRITICAL
TO
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY. PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY NEEDED TO SHOW U.S.
SUPPORT AT THE HIGHEST LEVELS IN
ORDER TO DEMONSTRATE TO RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT PUTIN THAT HE HAD U.S.
BACKING, AS WELL AS TO ADVANCE
HIS AMBITIOUS ANTICORRUPTION
REFORM AGENDA
AT HOME. PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S
TEAM IMMEDIATELY BEGAN PRESSING
TO SET A DATE FOR THE VISIT.
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND SENIOR
MEMBERS OF HIS TEAM MADE CLEAR
THAT THEY WANTED PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY'S FIRST OVERSEAS TRIP
TO BE TO WASHINGTON. TO SEND
A STRONG SIGNAL OF AMERICAN
SUPPORT AND REQUESTED A CALL
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE. WE AT THE EMBASSY
ALSO BELIEVED THAT A MEETING WAS
CRITICAL TO THE SUCCESS OF
PRESENT ZELENSKY DEMONSTRATION
AND HIS REFORM AGENDA , AND WE
WORKED HARD TO GET IT ARRANGED.
WHEN PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S TEAM
DID NOT RECEIVE A CONFIRMED DATE
FOR A WHITE HOUSE TO VISIT THEY
MADE ALTERNATIVE PLANS FOR
PRESENT ZELENSKY'S  FIRST
OVERSEAS TRIP TO BE TO BRUSSELS
INSTEAD, IN PART TO ATTEND AN
AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE DAY EVENT
THAT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND HOSTED
ON JULY 4th.  AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND HOSTED A DINNER AND
PRESENT ZELENSKY'S HONOR ,
FOLLOWING THE RECEPTION WHICH
INCLUDED PRESIDENT ZELENSKY,
JARED KUSHNER, SECRETARY
POMPEO'S COUNSELOR ULRICH
BRECHBUHL,  SENIOR EUROPEAN
OFFICIALS AND COMEDIAN JAY LENO
AMONG OTHERS. AMBASSADOR BILL
TAYLOR ARRIVED IN KIEV  ON
JUNE 17th. FOR THE NEXT MONTH,
THE FOCUS OF OUR ACTIVITIES,
ALONG WITH THOSE OF THE THREE
AMIGOS, WAS TO COORDINATE A
WHITE HOUSE VISIT. TO THAT END
WE WERE WORKING WITH UKRAINIANS
TO DELIVER THINGS WITHOUT
PRESIDENT TRUMP MIGHT CARE
ABOUT, SUCH AS COMMERCIAL DEALS
TO BENEFIT THE
UNITED STATES WHICH MIGHT
CONVINCE PRESIDENT TRUMP TO
AGREE TO A MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY . UKRAINIAN POLICY
COMMUNITY WAS UNANIMOUS IN AND I
SEE THE IMPORTANCE OF SECURING A
MEETING IN PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
SUPPORT. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
REPORTED THAT POMPEO HAD TOLD
HIM PRIOR TO HIS ARRIVAL "WE
NEED TO WORK ON TURNING THE
PRESIDENT AROUND ON UKRAINE."
AMBASSADOR VOLKER  TOLD US THE
NEXT FIVE YEARS COULD HANG ON
WHAT COULD BE ACCOMPLISHED IN
THE NEXT
THREE MONTHS. I TOOK THAT TO
MEAN IF WE DO NOT EARN PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S SUPPORT IN THE NEXT
THREE MONTHS WE CAN LOSE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE PROGRESS
DURING PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S
FIVE-YEAR TERM. WITHIN A WEEK OR
TWO IT BECAME APPARENT THAT THE
ENERGY SECRETARY REFORM,
COMMERCIAL DEALS, AND THE
ANTICORRUPTION EFFORTS ON WHICH
WE WERE MAKING PROGRESS FOR NOT
MAKING A DENT IN TERMS OF
PERSUADING THE WHITE HOUSE TO
SCHEDULE A MEETING BETWEEN THE
PRESIDENTS. ON JUNE 27th,
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND TOLD
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR  THE GIST OF
WHICH AMBASSADOR TAYLOR SHARED
WITH ME AT THE TIME, THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY NEEDED TO
MAKE CLEAR TO PRESIDENT TRUMP
THAT  PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WAS NOT
STANDING IN THE WAY OF
"INVESTIGATIONS."  I UNDERSTOOD
THAT THIS MEANT THE
BIDEN-BURISMA  INVESTIGATION OF
MR. GIULIANI AND HIS ASSOCIATES
HAS BEEN SPEAKING ABOUT IN THE
MEDIA SINCE MARCH.
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR DID NOT BRIEF
ME ON EVERY DETAIL OF HIS
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE THREE
AMIGOS, HE DID TELL ME ON A JUNE
28th CALL WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY,  AMBASSADOR TAYLOR AND
THE THREE AMIGOS, IT WAS MADE
CLEAR THAT SOME ACTION ON THE
BURISMA AND  THE BIDENS
INVESTIGATION  WAS FOR AN OVAL
OFFICE VISITS. ON JUNE 28th,
WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP  WAS NOT
MOVING FORWARD ON A MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY,  HE MET WITH
RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT PUTIN AT THE G20
SUMMIT AND OSAKA, JAPAN. SENDING
A FURTHER SIGNAL OF LACK OF
SUPPORT TO THE UKRAINE. WE
BECAME CONCERNED THAT EVEN IF A
MEETING BETWEEN PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AND PRESIDENT TRUMP
WORKER, IT WOULD NOT GO WELL.
DISCUSSED WITH EMBASSY
COLLEAGUES WHETHER WE SHOULD
STOP SEEKING A MEETING
ALTOGETHER. WHILE THE WHITE
HOUSE VISIT WAS CRITICAL TO THE
ZELENSKY
ADMINISTRATION , A VISIT TO THE
FIELD TO SEND A CLEAR AND STRONG
SIGNAL OF SUPPORT LIKELY WOULD
BE WORSE FOR PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
THE NO VISIT
AT ALL. CONGRESS HAS
APPROPRIATED $1.5 BILLION IN
SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR UKRAINE
SINCE 2014. THIS ASSISTANCE HAS
PROVIDED CRUCIAL MATERIAL AND
MORAL SUPPORT. UKRAINE AND ITS
DEFENSIVE WAR WITH RUSSIA. IT IS
HELPED UKRAINE BUILT ITS ARMED
FORCES VIRTUALLY FROM SCRATCH
INTO ARGUABLY THE MOST CAPABLE
AND BATTLE HARDENED LAND FORCE
IN EUROPE. I HAVE HAD THE HONOR
OF VISITING THE MAIN TRAINING
FACILITY IN WESTERN UKRAINE WITH
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND MEMBERS
OF THIS VERY COMMITTEE WHERE WE
WITNESSED FIRSTHAND U.S.
NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS, ALONG
WITH ALLIES, CONDUCTING TRAINING
FOR
UKRAINIAN SOLDIERS. SINCE 2014,
NATIONAL GUARD UNITS FROM
CALIFORNIA, OKLAHOMA, NEW YORK,
TENNESSEE, AND WISCONSIN, HAVE
TRAINED SHOULDER TO SHOULDER
WITH
UKRAINIAN COUNTERPARTS. EVEN THE
HISTORY OF U.S. SECURITY
ASSISTANCE TO THE UKRAINE AND
BIPARTISAN RECOGNITION OF ITS
IMPORTANCE, I
WAS SHOCKED WHEN ON JULY 18th AN
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
STAFF MEMBERS PRESENTLY
ANNOUNCED THE HOLD ON UKRAINE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE. THE
ANNOUNCEMENT CAME TO THE END OF
A NEARLY 2 HOUR NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL SECURE VIDEO
CONFERENCE CALL, WHICH I
PARTICIPATED IN FROM THE EMBASSY
CONFERENCE ROOM. THE OFFICIAL
SAID THE ORDER HAD COME FROM THE
PRESIDENT AND HAD BEEN CONVEYED
BY MR. MULVANEY, WITH NO FURTHER
EXPLANATION. THIS BEGAN A WEEK
OR SO OF EFFORTS BY VARIOUS
AGENCIES TO IDENTIFY THE
RATIONALE FOR THE FREEZE, TO
CONDUCT A REVIEW OF THE
ASSISTANCE, AND TO REAFFIRM THE
UNANIMOUS VIEW OF UKRAINE POLICY
COMMUNITY OF
ITS IMPORTANCE. NFC COUNTERPARTS
CONFIRM TO US THAT THERE HAD
BEEN NO CHANGE IN OUR UKRAINIAN
POLICY, BUT CANNOT DETERMINE THE
CAUSE OF THE HOLD OR HOW TO LIFT
IT. ON JULY 25th, PRESIDENT
TRUMP MADE A CONGRATULATORY
PHONE CALL TO PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY.  AFTER HIS PARTY WON A
COMMANDING MAJORITY AND
UKRAINE'S PARLIAMENTARY
ELECTION. CONTRARY TO STANDARD
PROCEDURE, THE EMBASSY RECEIVED
NO READOUT OF THE CALL AND I WAS
UNAWARE OF WHAT WAS DISCUSSED
UNDER THE TRANSCRIPT WAS
RELEASED ON THE 25th. UPON
READING THE TRANSCRIPT, I WAS
DEEPLY DISAPPOINTED TO SEE THE
PRESIDENT RAISED NONE OF WHAT I
UNDERSTOOD TO
BE OUR INTERAGENCY AGREED-UPON
FOREIGN POLICY PRIORITIES IN
UKRAINE BUT INSTEAD RAVED THE
BIDEN-THE QUID PRO QUO
BIDEN-TRAN05.
THE NEXT DAY, JULY 26, 319 I
ATTENDED MEETINGS WITH THE
PRESIDENTIAL ADMINISTRATION
BUILDING LUTSENKO'S FOUR WITH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, AMBASSADOR
VOLKER ,  AND AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND AND TOOK
NOTES.  OUR FIRST MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S CHIEF OF
STAFF WAS BRIEF AS HE HAD BEEN
SUMMONED BY PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
TO PREPARE FOR A BROADER MEETING
SUBSEQUENTLY.  BUT HE DID SAY
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD EXPRESSED
INTEREST DURING THE PREVIOUS
DAYS PHONE CALL  AND PRESENT
ZELENSKY'S
PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION.
THE DELEGATION THEN MET WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND OTHER
SENIOR OFFICIALS. DURING THE
MEETING, PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
STATED THAT DURING THE JULY 25th
CALL,  PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
"THREE TIMES RAISED SOME VERY
SENSITIVE ISSUES AND THAT HE
WOULD HAVE TO FOLLOW UP ON THOSE
ISSUES WHEN HE AND PRESIDENT
TRUMP MET
IN PERSON." NOT HAVING RECEIVED
A READOUT OF THE JULY 25th CALL
I DID NOT KNOW AT THE TIME WITH
THE SENSITIVE ISSUES WERE. AFTER
THE MEETING WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY,  AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND
TAYLOR  QUICKLY LEFT THE
PRESIDENTIAL AND LUSTRATION
BUILDING WITH A TRIP OR FOR A
TRIP TO THE FRONT LINES.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND WHO WAS TO
FLY OUT THAT AFTERNOON STAYED
BEHIND TO HAVE AN INTERVIEW
MEETING WITH ANDRIY YERMAK.  AS
I WAS LEAVING THE MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY I WAS TOLD TO
IN  JOIN THE MEETING WITH
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND AND ANDRIY
YERMAK AND TAKE NOTES.  I HAD
NOT EXPECTED TO JOIN THE MEETING
AND WAS A FLIGHT OF STAIRS
BEHIND AMBASSADOR SONDLAND AS HE
LEFT TO MEET  WITH ANDRIY
YERMAK. WHEN I REACHED MR.
ANDRIY YERMAK'S OFFICE,
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND HAD GONE
INTO THE MEETING AND I EXPLAINED
THAT I WAS SUPPOSED TO JOIN THE
MEETING AS THE EMBASSY'S
REPRESENTATIVE AND STRONGLY
URGED HER TO LET ME IN BUT I WAS
TOLD THAT ANDRIY YERMAK AND
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND INSISTED THE
MEETING BE ONE-ON-ONE WITH NO
TAKER.  NOTETAKER I THEN WAITED
IN THE ANTEROOM, AND TO THE
MEETING ENDED, ALONG WITH
SOMEONE OF AMBASSADOR SALMON
STAFF AND A MEMBER OF THE KIEV
STAFF.  WHEN COMPANIES
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND OUT OF THE
PRESIDENTIAL
BUILDING,  AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
SAID HE WANTED TO GO TO LUNCH
AND I TOLD HIM THAT I WOULD BE
HAPPY TO JOIN HIM AND THE TWO
STAFFERS  TO LUNCH IF HE WANTED
TO BRIEF ME OUT ON HIS MEETING
WITH ANDRIY YERMAK OR OTHER
ISSUES. AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SAID
I SHOULD JOIN.  THE FOUR OF US
WENT TO A NEARBY RESTAURANT AND
SAT ON AN OUTDOOR TERRACE. I SAT
DIRECTLY ACROSS FROM AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND  AND THE TWO STAFFERS
SET OFF TO OUR SIDE. AT FIRST
THE LORD LUNCH WAS LARGELY
SOCIAL, AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
SELECTED A BOTTLE OF WINE  THAT
WE SHARED AMONG THE FOUR OF US
AND DISC DISCUSSED TOPICS FOR
MARKETING STRATEGIES FOR HIS
HOTEL BUSINESS, DURING THE
LUNCH, AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SAID
HE WOULD CALL  PRESIDENT TRUMP
TO GIVE HIM AN UPDATE.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND PLACED A
CALL ON HIS MOBILE PHONE  AND I
HEARD HIM ANNOUNCE HIMSELF
SEVERAL TIMES ALONG THE LINES OF
GORDON SONDLAND HOLDING FOR THE
PRESIDENT. IT APPEARED HE WAS
BEING TRANSFERRED THROUGH
SEVERAL LAYERS OF SWITCHBOARDS
AND ASSISTANCE,  I THEN NOTICED
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND'S DEMEANOR
CHANGED.  I UNDERSTOOD HE HAD
BEEN CONNECTED TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP.  WHILE AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND'S PHONE  WAS NOT ON
SPEAKERPHONE I COULD HEAR THE
PRESIDENTS VOICE THROUGH THE
EARPIECE. THE PRESIDENTS VOICE
WAS LOUD, AND RECOGNIZABLE. AND
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND HELD THE
PHONE AWAY FROM HIS EAR FOR A
PERIOD OF TIME  PRESUMABLY
BECAUSE OF THE
LOUD VOLUME. I HEARD AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND GREET THE PRESIDENT AND
EXPLAINED HE WAS CALLING FROM
KIEV.  I HEARD PRESIDENT TRUMP
CLARIFIED THAT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND  WAS IN UKRAINE.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND REPLIED THAT
HE WAS IN UKRAINE  AND WENT ON
TO STATE THAT PRESENT ZELENSKY
"LOVES YOUR  ASS." I THEN HEARD
PRESIDENT TRUMP ASKED, SO IS
GOING TO DO THE INVESTIGATION?
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND REPLIED HE
IS GOING TO DO IT ADDING THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WILL DO
ANYTHING YOU ASK HIM TO
DO.  EVEN THOUGH I DID NOT TAKE
NOTES OF THE STATEMENTS, I HAD A
CLEAR RECOLLECTION THAT THE
STATEMENTS WERE MADE. I HAD A
BELIEVE THAT MY
COLLEAGUES WHO WERE AT THE TABLE
ALSO KNEW THAT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND WAS SPEAKING WITH THE
PRESIDENT.  THE CONVERSATION
THEN SHIFTED TO AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND'S EFFORTS ON BEHALF OF
THE PRESIDENT, TO ASSIST A
RAPPER WHO WAS JAILED IN SWEDEN
AND I CAN ONLY HEAR THE
INVESTORS OUTSIDE OF THE
CONVERSATION. AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND TOLD THE PRESIDENT OF
THE WRAPPER WAS " KIND OF EFFED
THERE" AND SHOULD HAVE PLED
GUILTY, HE RECOMMENDED THAT THE
PRESIDENT'S " WAIT UNTIL AFTER
THE STATEMENT, AND SAID THAT THE
PRESIDENT SHOULD LET HIM GET
SENTENCED, PLAY THE RACISM CARD
AND GIVE ME TICKERTAPE WHEN HE
COMES HOME." AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
FOR THE TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT
SWEDEN " SHOULD HAVE RELEASED
HIM ON YOUR WORD, BUT THAT YOU
CAN TELL THE
KARDASHIAN STRIDE." AFTER THE
CALL ENDED, AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
REMARKED THAT THE PRESIDENT WAS
IN A BAD MOOD  AS AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND STAYED WAS OFTEN THE
CASE EARLY IN THE MORNING.  I
THEN TOOK THE OPPORTUNITY TO ASK
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND FOR HIS
CANDID IMPRESSION OF THE
PRESIDENT'S VIEWS  ON UKRAINE,
IN PARTICULAR I ASKED AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND IF IT WAS TRUE THAT THE
PRESIDENT  DID NOT GIVE AN
EXPLETIVE
ABOUT UKRAINE. AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND AGREED THAT THE
PRESIDENT DID NOT GIVE AN
EXPLETIVE ABOUT UKRAINE.  I
ASKED WHY NOT? AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND STATED THAT THE
PRESIDENT ONLY CARES ABOUT BIG
STUFF . I NOTED THERE WAS BIG
STUFF GOING ON IN UKRAINE, LIKE
A WAR WITH RUSSIA. AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND REPLIED THAT HE MEANT A
BIG STUFF  THAT BENEFITS THE
PRESIDENT, LIKE THE BIDEN
INVESTIGATION THAT MR. GIULIANI
WAS PUSHING. THE CONVERSATION
THEN MOVED ON TO OTHER TOPICS.
UPON RETURNING TO THE EMBASSY I
IMMEDIATELY BRIEFED MY DIRECT
SUPERVISOR, THE DEPUTY CHIEF
ABOUT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND'S CALL
WITH  PRESIDENT TRUMP AND MY
SUBSEQUENT CONVERSATION WITH
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND. I TOLD
OTHERS AT THE EMBASSY ABOUT THE
CALL AS WELL.  I ALSO EMAILED AN
EMPTY OFFICIAL IN SWEDEN
REGARDING THE ISSUE WITH THE
U.S. RAPPER THAT WAS DISCUSSED
ON THE CALL.  JULY 26 WAS MY
LAST DAY IN THE OFFICE AHEAD OF
A LONG PLANNED VACATION THAT
ENDED ON
AUGUST 6. AFTER RETURNING TO THE
EMBASSY I TOLD AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
ABOUT THE CALL AND REPEATEDLY
REFERRED TO THE CALL AND THE
CONVERSATION WITH AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND  IN MEETINGS AND
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE ISSUE OF
THE PRESIDENTS ISSUE INTEREST IN
UKRAINE WAS RELEVANT. AT THAT
TIME, AMBASSADOR SONDLAND'S
STATEMENT OF THE  PRESENT LACK
OF INTEREST IN UKRAINE WAS A
PARTICULAR FOCUS. WE UNDERSTOOD
TO SECURE A MEETING BETWEEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY,  WE WOULD HAVE TO WORK
HARD TO FIND A WAY TO EXPLAIN
UKRAINE'S IMPORTANCE TO
PRESIDENT
TRUMP . OVER THE ENSUING WEEKS,
WE CONTINUE TO TRY TO IDENTIFIED
WAYS TO FRAME THE IMPORTANCE OF
UKRAINE IN WAYS THAT WOULD
APPEAL TO THE PRESIDENTS.
DETERMINED HOW TO LIFT THE HOLD
ON SECURITY SYSTEMS, AND MOVE
FORWARD ON THE SCHEDULING IN THE
WHITE HOUSE VISIT OF PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY.  UKRAINIAN
INDEPENDENCE DAY, AUGUST 24th,
PRESENTED ANOTHER GOOD
OPPORTUNITY TO SHOW SUPPORT FOR
UKRAINE. SECRETARY POMPEO HAD
CONSIDERED ATTENDING AS NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR BOLTON HAD
ATTENDED IN 2016
AND MADDEN IN 2017 BUT NO ONE
SENIOR TO AMBASSADOR VOLKER
ATTENDED. SHORTLY THEREAFTER ON
AUGUST 27th, AMBASSADOR BOLTON
VISITED THE UKRAINE. AND BROUGHT
WELCOME NEWS THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD AGREED TO MEET
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY ON SEPTEMBER
1st
IN WARSAW. AMBASSADOR BOLTON
FURTHER INDICATED THE HOLD ON
SECURITY ASSISTANCE WILL NOT BE
LIFTED PRIOR TO THE WARSAW
MEETING WHERE IT WOULD HANG ON
WHETHER OR NOT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY WAS ABLE TO " FAVORABLY
IMPRESSED PRESIDENT TRUMP."  I
TOOK NOTES AT AMBASSADOR
BOLTON'S MEETINGS THAT DAY WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND CHIEF OF
STAFF.  AMBASSADOR BOLTON TOLD
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY THAT THE
MEETING BETWEEN THE PRESIDENT
IN WARSAW WOULD BE CRUCIAL TO
CEMENTING THE RELATIONSHIP.
HOWEVER, PRESIDENT TRUMP
ULTIMATELY PULLED OUT OF THE
WARSAW TRIP
BEHOLD THE HOLD REMAINED IN
PLACE WITH NO CLEAR MEANS TO GET
IT LIFTED.
>> BETWEEN THE MEETINGS ON
AUGUST 27th, I HEARD AMBASSADOR
BOLTON EXPRESSED TO AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY
SENIOR COUNSEL
MORRISON ABOUT HIS FRUSTRATION
WITH GIULIANI'S INFLUENCE ON THE
PRESIDENT MAKING CLEAR THERE WAS
NOTHING HE COULD DO ABOUT IT. HE
RECOMMENDED THAT LUTSENKO'S
REPLACEMENT AS PROSECUTOR
GENERAL  OPEN THE CHANNEL WITH
HIS COUNTERPART, ATTORNEY
GENERAL BARR AND REPLACE OF THE
FORMER CHANNEL BETWEEN MR.
ANDRIY YERMAK AND MR.
GIULIANI.  AMBASSADOR BOLTON
ALSO EXPRESSED FRUSTRATION ABOUT
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND'S
INTERPRETATION OF HIS MANDATE.
ALTHOUGH BOTH CENTERS STRESSED
STRONG BIPARTISAN SUPPORT FOR
UKRAINE, SENATOR JOHNSON
CAUTIONED PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD A
NEGATIVE VIEW OF UKRAINE AND
THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WOULD
HAVE A DIFFICULT TIME OVERCOMING
IT. CENTER JOHNSON EXPLAINED
THAT HE HAD BEEN SHOCKED BY THE
NEGATIVE REACTION DURING AN OVAL
OFFICE MEETING ON MAY 23 WHEN HE
AND THE THREE AMIGOS PROPOSED
THAT THEY MEET PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AND SHOW SUPPORT FOR
UKRAINE.  ON SEPTEMBER 8, AND
BESSER TAYLOR SAID THEY ARE NOW
INSISTING THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY  SUBMITS TO THE
INTERVIEW FOR CNN. I WAS SHOCKED
THAT IT WAS SO SPECIFIC AND
CONCRETE. WE ADVISE OUR
COUNTERPARTS TO FOLLOW THE RULE
OF LAW, THIS WAS A DEMAND THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  HAD TO
COMMIT TO
FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP'S POLITICAL
RIVAL IN ON SEPTEMBER 11,
THE HOLD WAS FINALLY LIFTED
AFTER SIGNIFICANT PRESS COVERAGE
AND EXPRESSIONS OF CONCERN ABOUT
THE WITHHOLDING OF ASSISTANCE.
WE KNEW THE HOLD WAS LIFTED BUT
WE WERE STILL CONCERNED THAT HE
HAD COMMITTED IN EXCHANGE FOR
THE LIFTING, AND INTERVIEW.
THERE WAS THE ASK CONFERENCE
THAT WAS HELD
IN SECOND ONSET 13, THE EMBASSY
COLLEAGUE RECEIVED A PHONE CALL
THAT WORKED FOR THE AMBASSADOR
AND MY COLLEAGUE TEXTED ME
REGARDING THAT CALL THAT SAID
THE
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY INTERVIEW WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE  TODAY. THEY DID
NOT KNOW IF THIS WAS DECIDED
OR IF HE WAS ADVOCATING FOR
THAT. FINALLY, ALSO, WE RAN INTO
OTHERS AND THEY SAID STAYING OUT
OF POLITICS. THEY SHRUGGED AS IF
TO INDICATE THAT HE HAD NO
CHOICE. IN SHORT, EVERYONE
THOUGHT THERE WOULD BE AN
INTERVIEW AND THAT THE
UKRAINIANS
THOUGHT THEY HAD TO DO IT BUT
THE INTERVIEW DID NOT OCCUR. ON
THE 21st, THEY COLLABORATED ON
INPUT TO BRIEF PRESIDENT TRUMP
AHEAD OF THE
CITY WERE 25th MEETING THAT HAD
BEEN ON THE MARGINS OF THE
GENERAL ASSEMBLY IN THE
TRANSCRIPT WAS RELEASED THE SAME
DAY. AS OF TODAY, I HAVE STILL
NOT SEEN A REACTION OF THIS
MEETING.
AS THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY HAS
PROGRESSED, I HAVE FOLLOWED
PRESS REPORTS
AND BASED ON MY EXPERIENCES, MY
RECOLLECTION IS CONSISTENT WITH
THEIR TESTIMONY AND I BELIEVE
THE FACTS WERE LAID OUT FOR THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. HOWEVER, I READ
PRESS REPORTS EXPRESSING FOR THE
FIRST TIME THAT CERTAIN SENIOR
OFFICIALS MAY HAVE BEEN ACTING
WITHOUT THE PRESENCE KNOWLEDGE
OR FREELANCING IN THEIR DEALINGS
WITH UKRAINE. AT THE SAME TIME,
I ALSO READ REPORTS WITH THE
LACK OF FIRST-HAND EVIDENCE IN
SUGGESTING THAT THE ONLY
EVIDENCE WAS HEARSAY. I CAME TO
REALIZE THAT I HAD FIRST-HAND
KNOWLEDGE THAT HAD NOT OTHERWISE
BEEN REPORTED. THAT THOSE EVENTS
HAD A QUESTION OF WHETHER THE
PRESIDENT DID IN FACT HAVE
KNOWLEDGE THAT THE SENIOR
OFFICIALS WERE USING DIPLOMATIC
POWER
TO ANNOUNCE THE OPENING OF A
KERNEL INVESTIGATION AGAINST
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S POLITICAL
OPPONENT. IT IS AT THAT POINT
THAT I MAY BE OBSERVATION JIM
BESSER TAYLOR THAT THIS HAD
REQUIRED GREATER SIGNIFICANCE
WHICH IS WHAT HE REPORTED IN HIS
TESTIMONY LAST WEEK AND WHAT LED
TO THE SUBPOENA FOR ME TO APPEAR
HERE TODAY. IN CONCLUSION, I
WOULD LIKE TO TAKE A MOMENT TO
TURN BACK TO UKRAINE. TODAY,
THIS VERY DAY IS EXACTLY 6 YEARS
WHEN THEY SPONTANEOUSLY GATHERED
TO LAUNCH WHAT BECAME KNOWN AS A
REVOLUTION OF DIGNITY. THE
PROTEST BEGAN IN OPPOSITION
BUT THEY EXPANDED OVER THREE
MONTHS
FOR THE REPRESSIVE SYSTEM THAT
HAD BEEN SUSTAINED. THOSE EVENTS
WERE FOLLOWED BY THE OCCUPATION
AND INVASION
AND ENSUING WAR THAT HAS CAUSED
THE MOST 15,000 LINES. DESPITE
THE RUSSIAN AGGRESSION,
UKRAINIANS HAVE REBUILT AN
ECONOMY AND MOVED ECONOMICALLY
AND CLOSER TO THE WEST
TOWARD OUR WAY OF LIFE. EARLIER
THIS YEAR, UKRAINIANS SHOWS A
FRESH START
BY VOTING FOR A POLITICAL
NEWCOMER FOR PRESIDENT IN
REPLACING 80% OF THEIR
PARLIAMENT AND ENDORSING A
PLATFORM CONSISTENT WITH THE
DEMOCRATIC VALUES AND REFORM
PRIORITIES AND STRATEGIC
INTERESTS. THIS YEAR'S
REVOLUTION UNDERSCORES AND
DESPITE ITS IMPERFECTIONS, THIS
IS A GENUINE AND VIBRANT
DEMOCRACY AN EXAMPLE TO OTHER
POST-SOVIET COUNTRIES AND BEYOND
FROM MOSCOW TO HONG KONG.
HOW WE RESPOND TO THIS HISTORIC
OPPORTUNITY WILL SEND THE
TRAJECTORY OF OUR RELATIONSHIP
WITH UKRAINE AND DEFINE AGONIST
TO DEFEND OUR PRINCIPLES AND
LEADERSHIP ROLE. UKRAINIANS WANT
TO HEAR A CLEAR AND
UNAMBIGUOUS REAFFIRMATION THAT
THE LONG-STANDING BIPARTISAN
POLICY HAS STRONG SUPPORT FOR
UKRAINE THAT
REMAINS UNCHANGED AND WE FULLY
BACK IT AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL.
NOW IS NOT THE TIME TO RETREAT
FROM A RELATIONSHIP WITH UKRAINE
BUT RATHER TO DOUBLE DOWN ON IT.
AS WE SIT HERE TODAY, UKRAINIANS
ARE FIGHTING A HOT WAR AGAINST
RUSSIAN AGGRESSION IN THIS WEEK
ALONE SINCE I HAVE BEEN HERE IN
WASHINGTON, TWO UKRAINE SOLDIERS
WERE KILLED
DESPITE A DECLARED CEASE-FIRE. I
LEARNED OVERNIGHT THAT SEVEN
MORE WERE INJURED YESTERDAY.
VICE PRESIDENT PENN SAID AFTER
HIS MEETING WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY  THAT THE UKRAINE
RELATIONSHIP HAS NEVER BEEN
STRONGER. UKRAINIANS IN THEIR
NEW GOVERNMENT EARNESTLY WANT TO
BELIEVE THAT. UKRAINIANS CHAIRS
AMERICAN SUPPORT AND THEY RECOIL
AT THE THOUGHT OF PLAYING A ROLE
IN DOMESTIC POLITICS OR
ELECTIONS. THE TIME OF SHIFTING
ALLEGIANCES, WE HAVE NO BETTER
FRIENDS THAN UKRAINE. SCRAPPY
AND AM BOUND AND DETERMINED
AND ABOVE ALL, DIGNIFIED PEOPLE
WHO ARE STANDING UP AGAINST
RUSSIAN AUTHORITARIANS WITH
AGGRESSION. THEY DESERVE BETTER.
WE ARE NOW TO A POINT THAT IS
CRITICAL TO STAND IN STRONG
SUPPORT OF OUR PARTNERS.
UKRAINIANS AND FREEDOM LOVING
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE WATCHING
THE EXAMPLE WE SET HERE WITH THE
RULE OF LAW. THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU DR. HOLMES. DR.
HILL. IS THE MICROPHONE ON?
>> I BELIEVE IT IS NOW. THANK
YOU AGAIN  MR. CHAIRMAN.
THANK YOU FOR INVITING ME TO
TESTIFY BEFORE YOU TODAY. I HAVE
A SHORT OPENING STATEMENT. I
APPRECIATE THE IMPORTANCE OF THE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY AND I AM
APPEARING TODAY AS A FACT
WITNESS AS I DID DURING MY
DEPOSITION ON OCTOBER 14. TO
ANSWER YOUR QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT
I SAW AND WHAT I DID AND WHAT I
KNEW AND WHAT I KNOW WITH REGARD
TO THE SUBJECTS OF YOUR INQUIRY.
I BELIEVE THAT THOSE THAT HAVE
INFORMATION
, I HAVE A LEGAL AND MORAL
OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE IT. I TAKE
GREAT PRIDE IN THE FACT THAT I'M
A FOREIGN POLICY EXPERT THAT
SERVED UNDER THREE REPUBLICANS
AND DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTS. I
HAVE NO INTEREST IN ADVANCING
AND OUTCOME IN ANY PARTICULAR
DIRECTION EXCEPT TOWARDS THE
TRUTH. I WILL NOT
PROVIDE A LONG STATEMENT BECAUSE
I BELIEVE THE INTEREST OF
CONGRESS AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
IS BEST SERVED BY ALLOWING YOU
TO ASK ME YOUR QUESTIONS. I'M
HAPPY TO EXPAND UPON MY
POSITION TESTIMONY IN RESPONSE
TO YOUR QUESTIONS TODAY BUT
BEFORE I DO SO, I WOULD LIKE TO
COMMUNICATE TWO THINGS, FIRST, I
WOULD LIKE TO SHOW A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT WHO I AM. I AM AN AMERICAN
BY CHOICE. I BECAME A CITIZEN IN
2002 AND I WAS BORN IN ENGLAND
IN THE SAME REGION THAT GEORGE
WASHINGTON'S ANCESTORS CAME
FROM. BOTH MY REGION AND MY
FAMILY HAD DEEP TIES TO THE
UNITED STATES. MY GRANDFATHER
FOUGHT THROUGH WORLD WAR I
SURVIVING BEING SHOT
IN 1918.
DURING THE SECOND WORLD WAR,
OTHER MEMBERS OF MY FAMILY
FOUGHT TO DEFEND THE FREE WORLD
FROM FASCISM. THE MEN IN MY
FATHER'S FAMILY WERE CO-MINORS.
WHEN MY FATHER WAS 14, HE JOINED
HIS FATHER AND BROTHERS AND
UNCLES AND COUSINS TO HELP PUT
FOOD ON THE TABLE.
WHEN THE LAST OF THE LOCAL MINES
CLOSED, MY FATHER WANTED TO
IMMIGRATE TO THE UNITED STATES
TO WORK IN THE COMMONS IN WEST
VIRGINIA AND PENNSYLVANIA WITH
HIS MOTHER,
MY GRANDMA HAD BEEN CRIPPLED AND
MY FATHER COULD NOT LEAVE SO HE
STAYED UNTIL HE DIED IN 2012.
WHILE HIS TREATMENT IMMIGRATING,
THEY HAVE THE CULTURE AND THE
HISTORY AND IT HAD A BEACON OF
HOPE FOR THE WORLD. HE ALWAYS
WANTED TO MAKE IT TO THE UNITED
STATES. I BEGAN MY STUDIES IN
1984 AND I WENT TO THE SAME
UNIVERSITY AS MY COLLEAGUE HERE,
MR. HOLMES.
IN 1987, I WON A PLACE AT THE
SOVIET UNION AND I WAS THEREFORE
THE NUCLEAR FORCES AND WHEN
PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN MET IN
MOSCOW. THIS IS A TURNING POINT
FOR ME
IN AN AMERICAN PROFESSOR TOLD ME
ABOUT STUDENT SCHOLARSHIPS TO
THE UNITED STATES IN THE NEXT
YEAR THANKS TO HIS ADVICE, I
WENT TO AMERICA. YEARS LATER, I
CAN SAY WITH CONFIDENCE THAT
THIS COUNTRY HAS OFFERED ME
OPPORTUNITIES I NEVER WOULD HAVE
HAD IN ENGLAND. I GREW UP POOR
WITH THE DISTINCTIVE
ACCENT AND THIS WOULD'VE IMPEDED
MY ADVANCEMENT. IT HAS NEVER SET
ME BACK
IN AMERICA AND FOR THE BETTER
PART OF THREE DECADES, I HAVE
BUILT A CAREER AS AN OPTICAL
NATIONAL SECURITY PROFESSIONAL
FOCUSING ON THE SOVIET UNION. I
SERVED OUR COUNTRY IN MIRO'S
RECENT
WITH NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
UNDER PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH
AND BARACK OBAMA. I WAS THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE SENIOR
EXPERT. IT WAS BECAUSE OF MY
BACKGROUND AND EXPERIENCE THAT I
WAS ASKED TO JOIN THE SECURITY
COUNCIL AND AT THE NFC, RUSSIA
WAS PART OF MY PORTFOLIO BUT I
WAS ALSO RESPONSIBLE FOR
COORDINATING U. S. POLICY FOR
WESTERN EUROPE AND EASTERN
EUROPE AND TURKEY ALONG WITH
NATO AND THE EUROPEAN UNION. I
WAS HIRED BY MICHAEL FLYNN
BUT THEN I STARTED WORKING APRIL
2017 WHEN McMASTER WAS THE
SECURITY ADVISOR. I THOUGHT I
COULD HELP THEM
WITH THE STATED GOAL OF
IMPROVING RELATIONS WITH RUSSIA
WHILE STILL IN LENDING POLICIES
DESIGNED THAT COULD THREATEN THE
UNITED STATES INCLUDING THE
SUCCESSFUL RUSSIAN OPERATION TO
INTERFERE IN THE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION. THIS IS THE SECOND
THING I WANTED TO COMMUNICATE.
BASED ON QUESTIONS AND
STATEMENTS I HAVE HEARD, SOME OF
YOU ON THIS COMMITTEE HAVE YOU
TO BELIEVE THAT SECURITY
SERVICES DID NOT COME AGAINST
OUR COUNTRY AND PERHAPS SOMEHOW
FOR SOME REASON, UKRAINE DID.
THIS IS A FICTIONAL NARRATIVE
THAT IS BEING PERPETRATED BY THE
RUSSIAN SECURITY THEMSELVES. THE
UNFORTUNATE TRUTH IS THAT RUSSIA
WAS THE FOREIGN POWER
THAT ATTACKED OUR INSTITUTIONS
IN 2016 AND THIS IS A PUBLIC
CONCLUSION OF OUR INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES
AND IT IS BEYOND DISPUTE. EVEN
IF SOME OF THE UNDERLYING
DETAILS REMAIN CLASSIFIED.
THE RUSSIAN CAMPAIGN REMAINS
WHAT IT IS TODAY IN OUR NATION
WITH A HIGHLY PROFESSIONAL
EXPERT SERVICE IS BEING
UNDERMINED. THEY CONTINUE TO
HAVE IT POLITICIZE.
THE GOAL IS TO WEAKEN OUR
COUNTRY AND DIMINISH THE GLOBAL
ROLE AND TO NEUTRALIZE A
PERCEIVED THREAT TO RUSSIAN
INTERESTS. PRESIDENT PUTIN AND
THE SECURITY SERVICES IN THE
FORM POLICY OBJECTIVES WHERE
MOSCOW WISHES TO REASSERT
POLITICAL DOMINANCE.
I SAY THIS AS A REALIST AND I DO
NOT THINK LONG-TERM CONFLICT
WITH RUSSIA IS DESIRABLE OR
INEVITABLE. WE NEED TO STABILIZE
OUR RELATIONSHIP
WITH MOSCOW AND RIGHT NOW,
SECURITY SERVICES AND THEIR
PROXIES HAVE REPEATED
INTERFERENCE WITH THE 20/20
ELECTION. WE ARE RUNNING OUT OF
TIME TO STOP THEM. I WOULD ASK
THAT YOU PLEASE NOT PROMOTE
SERVICES BUT AS VULCANS AND
DEMOCRATS, UKRAINE IS A VALUED
PARTNER AND IT PLAYS AN
IMPORTANT ROLE IN OUR SECURITY.
AS I TOLD THE COMMITTEE, I
REFUSE TO BE PART OF THIS
NARRATIVE THAT THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT IN UKRAINE NOT RUSSIA
ATTACKED IN 2016. THESE ARE
HARMFUL EVEN IF THEY ARE FOR
DOMESTIC PURPOSES.
THEY OPERATE LIKE A SUPER PACK
AND PLAY MILLIONS OF DOLLARS TO
WEAPON EYES OUR OWN POLITICAL
OPPOSITION RESEARCH AND FALSE
NARRATIVES. WHEN WE ARE CONSUMED
BY THIS, WE CANNOT HAVE THESE
EXTERNAL FORCES TO HAVE
INSTITUTIONS AND DESTROY THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. I RESPECT THE
WORK THAT THIS CONGRESS DOES
AND I AM HERE TO HELP YOU TO THE
BEST OF MY ABILITY. IF ANYONE
SUBVERTS THE NATIONAL SECURITY
OF THE UNITED STATES IN ORDER TO
DEFER THE PERSONAL INTEREST
, THAT IS WORTHY OF YOUR
ATTENTION BUT WE MUST SELECT
DOMESTIC POLITICS STOP US FROM
DEFENDING OURSELVES AGAINST THE
FOREIGN POWERS. THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU DR. HILL, WE WILL
NOW PROCEED TO THE FIRST ROUND
OF QUESTIONS. THERE WILL BE 45
MINUTES OF  QUESTIONS CONNECTED
BY THE CHAIRMAN OR COUNCIL AND
45 MEMBERS
FOR THE RANKING COUNSEL UNLESS I
SPECIFY EQUAL TIME FOR US TO THE
QUESTIONING, WE WILL PROCEED
UNDER THE FIVE MINUTE RULE AND
EVERY MEMBER WILL HAVE A TIME TO
ASK QUESTIONS. I NOW RECOGNIZE
MYSELF FOR THE FIRST ROUND OF
QUESTIONS. FIRST OF ALL, THANK
YOU BOTH FOR BEING HERE AND
TESTIFYING. DR. HILL, YOUR STORY
PROVIDES A GREAT DEAL OF WHAT WE
HEARD FROM ALEXANDER
AND THE FEW IMMIGRANT STORIES
THAT WE HAVE HEARD IN THE COURSE
OF THESE HEARINGS ARE AMONG THE
MOST POWERFUL THAT I HAVE EVER
HEARD. YOU AND OTHERS
ARE THE BEST OF THIS COUNTRY AND
YOU CAME HERE BY CHOICE AND WE
ARE SO BLESSED THAT YOU DID. SO,
WELCOME. MY COLLEAGUES
TOOK SOME UMBRAGE WITH YOUR
OPENING STATEMENT BUT I THINK
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE CAN BE
FORGIVEN IF THEY HAVE THE SAME
IMPRESSION LISTEN TO THE
STATEMENTS THAT RUSSIA DID NOT
INTERVENE IN OUR ELECTION BUT IT
WAS ALL OF THE UKRAINIANS.
THERE'S AN EFFORT TO HAVE THE
STORY HERE OR THERE AND SOMEHOW
EQUATED WITH THE SYSTEMIC
INTERVENTION THAT THE
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY FOUND THAT
RUSSIA PERPETRATED IN 2016
AND THE REPORT MY COLLEAGUES
GAVE YOU THAT THEY PRODUCED
DURING AN INVESTIGATION CALLS
INTO QUESTION THE ACCURACY OF
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES FINDING
THAT RUSSIA INTERVENED
TO HELP DONALD TRUMP AT THE
EXPENSE OF HILLARY CLINTON. NO
ONE QUESTIONS THAT FINDING AND
OR DOES THE FBI OR THE SENATE OR
THE MINORITY COMMITTEE REPORT OF
THIS COMMITTEE WITH THE HOUSE
REPUBLICANS REPORT THAT AS AN
OUTLIER. LET ME ASK YOU, DR.
HILL ABOUT YOUR CONCERN WITH
THAT RUSSIAN NARRATIVE THAT IT
WASN'T THE RUSSIANS THAT ENGAGED
IN INTERFERING ELECTIONS AND OF
COURSE THIS WAS GIVEN A BOOST
ON THEY SAID HE QUESTION HIS OWN
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES BUT WHY
ARE THE RUSSIANS PUSHING THAT
NARRATIVE THAT IT WAS UKRAINE
AND HOW DOES THAT SERVE RUSSIAN
INTEREST?
>> THE RUSSIAN INTEREST WANTED
TO DELEGITIMIZE OUR PRESIDENCY
AND ONE ISSUE I WANT TO RAISE
AND I THINK THIS WOULD RESONATE
ON THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IS THAT
THE GOAL OF THE RUSSIANS WAS TO
PUT WHOEVER BECAME THE PRESIDENT
BY TRYING TO TIP THEIR HANDS
UPON SIDE OF THE SCALE UNDER THE
CLOUD.
SO IF THEY HAVE BEEN ELECTED AND
INDEED MANY EXPECTED
THAT ELECTION IN 2016, SHE TOO
WOULD'VE HAD MAJOR QUESTIONS
ABOUT LEGITIMACY AND I THINK
WHAT WE ARE SEEING HERE AS A
RESULT OF ALL THESE NARRATIVES,
THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT THE
GOVERNMENT WAS HOPING FOR
. THEY SEE MISINFORMATION AND
DOUBT AND HAVE EVERYONE
QUESTIONING THE LEGITIMACY
AND THAT THEY WOULD PICK ONE
SIDE AGAINST THE OTHER.
THAT'S WHY I WANTED TO MAKE SUCH
A STRONG POINT AT THE VERY
BEGINNING BECAUSE THERE WERE
INDIVIDUALS IN MANY COUNTRIES
THAT HAD HARSH WORDS
FOR MANY OF THE CANDIDATES AND
WE HAD A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT WERE
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE. MANY PEOPLE
WERE TRYING TO GAIN THE OUTCOME
AND AS YOU KNOW, THE BOOKIES
TAKE BETS.
YOU CAN LAY BETS ON WHO YOU
THINK WILL BE THE CANDIDATES IN
THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT WOULD TRY
TO LAND THEIR OWN BETS BUT WHAT
THEY WANTED TO DO WAS GIVE A
SPREAD AND MAKE SURE THAT
WHOEVER THEY HAD BET ON OR TRY
TO TIP THE SCALES THAT THEY
WOULD EXPERIENCE SOME DISCOMFORT
AND THAT THEY WOULD CREATE THE
KIND OF CHAOS WE HAVE SEEN IN
THAT POLITIC.
I WANT TO EMPHASIZE THAT WE NEED
TO BE CAREFUL AS WE DISCUSSED
ALL OF THESE ISSUES NOT TO GET
THEM MORE THAT THEY CAN USE
AGAINST US.
>> I QUITE AGREE AND I THINK YOU
ARE RIGHT  THAT THE RUSSIANS ARE
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY METALLERS AND
THEY WILL NOT ONLY HELP ONE SIDE
ALSO SEEK TO SHOW DISCORD IN THE
UNITED STATES ALONG ETHNIC OR
RELIGIOUS OR GEOGRAPHIC LINES
BUT THERE IS ALSO A BENEFIT NOW
FOR RUSSIA TO PUT THE BLAME ON
UKRAINE AND TO CAST DOUBT ON
WHETHER THEY INTERVENED AT ALL
AND BLAME IT ON A U. S. ALLY AS
A WAY OF DRIVING A WEDGE BETWEEN
THE U. S. AND UKRAINE, ISN'T
THAT TRUE?
>> THAT IS ABSOLUTELY THE CASE
AND  THE RUSSIANS LIKE TO PUT A
LOT OF BLAME ON U. S. ALLIES. WE
PUT THAT RECENTLY WITH THE
UNITED KINGDOM AND THE SECRET
SERVICES
AND WHAT YOU MAY RECALL THAT
THEY ACTUALLY ACCUSED THEM OF
PERPETRATING THIS THEMSELVES AND
THIS FALLS INTO A LONG PATENT
WITH THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT
TRYING TO PIN THE BLAME ON
SOMEONE ELSE. MY COLLEAGUE HAS
LAID OUT THAT THE RUSSIANS HAVE
A VESTED INTEREST IN PUTTING
THEM IN A BAD LIGHT. ALL OF THE
ISSUES THAT WE STARTED TO
DISCUSS AND THAT YOU HAVE BEEN
DEEPLY INVOLVED IN BEGAN WITH
THE ANNEXATION FROM UKRAINE IN
RESPONSE WITH ALL OF THE
DIFFERENT ACTS OF AGGRESSION
AND LOOKING AT THE RUSSIAN
OPERATIVES
AND THERE IS A GREAT DEAL OF
HOSTILITY AND INTENT AND IT
SUITS THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT
VERY MUCH IF WE ARE ALSO LOOKING
AT UKRAINE AND SOMEHOW THE
PERPETRATOR AGAINST US.
>> MR. HOLMES, I WANT TO ASK A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS .
I WAS HONESTLY AT YOUR
DEPOSITION AND I READ YOUR
OPENING TESTIMONY BUT HAVE YOU
LEARN MORE FACTS, YOU SEE THINGS
IN DIFFERENT LIGHT EVEN THOUGH
THE OPENING STATEMENT IS VERY
MUCH CONSISTENT AND I WAS STRUCK
IN PARTICULAR MY SOMETHING YOU
SAID ON PAGE 10 OF YOUR OPENING
STATEMENT. WE HAD ADVISED
COUNTERPARTS TO HAVE A
COMMITMENT AND FOLLOWING THE
RULE OF LAW AND GENERALLY
INVESTIGATE INCREDIBLE
ALLEGATIONS, THIS WAS A DEMAND
THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WOULD COMMIT
ON THE NEWS CHANNEL AND SPECIFIC
INVESTIGATION OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S POLITICAL RIVAL . THIS
GETS TO A POINT THAT I MADE AT
THE CLOSE OF OUR HEARING
YESTERDAY. ABOUT HYPOCRISY. HERE
WE ARE
AND WE ARE URGING UKRAINIANS TO
COMMIT TO FOLLOWING THE RULE OF
LAW AS YOU SAID AND ONLY
INVESTIGATE GENUINE AND CREDIBLE
ALLEGATIONS AND WHAT ARE WE
DOING? WE ARE ASKING THEM TO
INVESTIGATE THE PRESIDENT'S
POLITICAL RIVAL. THEY ARE PRETTY
SOPHISTICATED ACTORS
, AREN'T THEY? THEY CAN
RECOGNIZE HYPOCRISY WHEN THEY
SEE IT. WHAT IS IT YOU WHEN THEY
SEE THEY ARE ENGAGING IN
CORRUPTION OURSELVES?
>> YES SIR, THE LONG-STANDING
POLICY IS TO ENCOURAGE THEM TO
ESTABLISH AND BUILD  RULE OF LAW
INSTITUTIONS THAT CAN PURSUE
ALLEGATIONS AND THAT IS THE
POLICY AND WE HAVE BEEN DOING
THAT FOR QUITE SOME TIME WITH
SUCCESS. FOCUSING ON PARTICULAR
CASES WHERE THERE IS INTEREST OF
THE PRESIDENT AND IT'S HARD TO
EXPLAIN WHY WE WOULD DO THAT.
>> BACK TO THAT CONVERSATION
WHEN HE URGED UKRAINE NOT TO
PROSECUTE IN THE REPLY
WAS YOU MEAN LIKE YOU WANT TO
STAY WITH THE BIDENS AND THE
CLINTONS? THEY ARE SOPHISTICATED
ENOUGH ACTORS TO RECOGNIZE
WHEN WE ARE STAYING DO AS WE SAY
AND NOT AS WE DO, OR THEY NOT?
>> YES, SIR.
>> I WAS STRUCK BY THIS TODAY ,
WHEN EVEN AFTER THE AID IS
LISTED, UKRAINE STILL FELT
PRESSURE TO MAKE THE STATEMENTS
AND YOU WERE WORRIED THAT THEY
WOULD DO IT ON CNN AND YOU SAID
THAT INVESTOR TAYLOR SAID HE
HOPED NO INTERVIEW WAS PLANNED
AND HE DID NOT ANSWER BUT
SHRUGGED IN RESIGNATION AS IF TO
INDICATE THAT THEY HAD NO
CHOICE. EVERYONE THOUGHT THERE
WOULD BE AN INTERVIEW AND THAT
THE UKRAINIANS BELIEVED THEY HAD
TO DO IT. ARE YOU NOTING THAT
UKRAINE FELT PRESSURED TO
UNDERTAKE THESE INVESTIGATIONS
THAT OTHERS WERE DEMANDING?
>> YES SIR AND ALL OF THE HOLD
MAY HAVE BEEN LIFTED , THERE
WERE THINGS THEY WANTED THAT
THEY WERE NOT GETTING AND
WHETHER THAT CONTINUED OR NOT,
UKRAINE'S UNDERSTOOD THAT THAT
WAS SOMETHING THE PRESIDENT
WANTED AND THEY WANTED IMPORTANT
THINGS FROM THE PRESIDENT AND I
THINK THAT CONTINUES TO THIS DAY
AND THEY STILL NEED US NOW GOING
FORWARD. RIGHT NOW, THEY ARE
TRYING TO ARRANGE A SUMMIT
MEETING IN THE COMING WEEKS WITH
THE FIRST FACE-TO-FACE MEETING
TO TRY TO ADVANCE THE PEACE
PROCESS AND HE NEEDS OUR SUPPORT
AND TO UNDERSTAND THAT AMERICA
SUPPORTS PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AT
THE HIGHEST LEVELS. THIS IS IN
AND WHAT THE LIFTING OF
SECURITY. THEY ARE STILL
FIGHTING THIS WAR.
>>
MY COLLEAGUE SAID SO ELEGANTLY
THAT THEY GOT CAUGHT.
>>
THE MORNING TO BOTH OF YOU.
YESTERDAY WE HEARD TESTIMONY
FROM AMBASSADOR GORDON SUMLIN
FROM THE EUROPEAN UNION THAT
TESTIFIED THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WANTED UKRAINE TO ANNOUNCE THE
INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE BIDENS
AND
BARIZMA BECAUSE THAT WOULD
BENEFIT HIM POLITICALLY AND HE
IS LEVERAGE OF THAT MEETING  TO
PRESSURE PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO
DO SO.  DR. HILL, YOU TESTIFIED
IN MID-JUNE THAT
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND TOLD YOU
THAT HE WAS IN CHARGE OF UKRAINE
POLICY. IS THAT  RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> WHO DID HE SAY PUT YOU IN
CHARGE?
>> HE SAID IT WAS THE PRESIDENT.
>> MR. HOLMES, DID YOU ALSO
UNDERSTAND THAT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND HAVE BEEN GIVEN
AUTHORITY OVER UKRAINE POLICY
FROM THE PRESIDENT?
>> WE UNDERSTOOD HE HAD BEEN
TOLD  TO WORK WITH MR. GIULIANI.
>> DID HE HOLD HIMSELF OUT AS
HAVING  DIRECT CONTACT AND
KNOWLEDGE
OF THE PRIORITIES AND INTERESTS?
>> YES, SIR.
>> I WILL GO TO THAT JULY 26
DATE  WHEN YOU OVERHEARD THE
CONVERSATION BETWEEN AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND AND PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
I WILL ASK YOU  A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE LEAD UP TO THAT
CONVERSATION. BEFORE THE ONES
THAT YOU DESCRIBED, YOU SAID YOU
ACCOMPANIED VOLKER AND TAYLOR
AND SONDLAND  TO A MEETING
WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY, IS THAT
RIGHT?
>> YES, SIR.
>> YOU TOOK NOTES OF THAT
MEETING?
>> YES.
>> YOU LOOKED OVER THOSE TO
HELP YOUR RECOLLECTION, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> YES.
>> DURING THAT MEETING, HE SAID
ON HIS PHONE CALL WAS PRESIDENT
TRUMP THE PREVIOUS DAY THAT
THREE TIMES PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
MENTIONED SENSITIVE ISSUES. DID
YOU UNDERSTAND
WHAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WAS
REFERRING TO WHEN HE SAID
SENSITIVE ISSUES?
>> YOU CAN BE SURE UNTIL I LATER
READ THE TRANSCRIPT OF THAT JULY
25 PHONE CALL BUT I WAS AWARE OF
VARIOUS CONTACTS BETWEEN THE
THREE AMIGOS AND HIS GOVERNMENT
ABOUT THESE SETS OF ISSUES.
>> AFTER YOU READ THE CALL, WHAT
DID YOU DETERMINE TO BE THE
SENSITIVE ISSUES REFERENCE?
>> THE BARIZMA BY AN
INVESTIGATION.
>> YOU SAID THAT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND HAD A ONE-ON-ONE
MEETING WITH THE TOP A TO
ZELENSKY AND YOU ARE PROHIBITED
TO TAKE NOTES, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> YES.
>> YESTERDAY, AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND TESTIFIED  THAT HE
PROBABLY DISCUSSED THE
INVESTIGATIONS
AND DID AMBASSADOR SONDLAND TELL
YOU AT ALL WHAT THEY DISCUSS?
>> HE DID NOT.
>> AFTER THIS MEETING, YOU WENT
TO LUNCH AND CAN YOU JUST
DESCRIBE  WHERE YOU ARE SITTING?
>> WE WERE AT THE FIRST TABLES
AND THE DOORS WERE ALL
WIDE-OPEN. THERE WERE TABLES
PUSHED TOGETHER AND IT WAS A
WIDE TABLE. AND THERE WAS A
RUNNER DOWN THE MIDDLE AND WE
WERE CLOSE ENOUGH TO SHARE AN
ADVERTISER BETWEEN US AND THEN
THEY WERE OFF TO THE RIGHT AT
THE NEXT TABLE.
>> YOU SAID AT SOME POINT THAT
AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND PULLED OUT HIS CELL
PHONE AND CALLED PRESIDENT
TRUMP.  THIS WAS UNSECURE, IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> YES.
>> YOU SAID YOU WERE ABLE TO
HEAR  PRESIDENT TRUMP'S VOICE
THROUGH THE RECEIVER. HOW WERE
YOU ABLE TO HEAR IF IT WAS NOT
ON SPEAKERPHONE?
>> IT WAS QUITE LOUD AND QUITE
DISTINCTIVE
AND I BELIEVE AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND THAT HE SPEAKS VERY
LOUDLY OVER THE PHONE  AND I
CERTAINLY EXPERIENCED THAT. WHEN
THE PRESIDENT CAME ON, HE WINCED
AND HELD THE PHONE AWAY FROM HIS
EAR AND HE DID THAT FOR THE
FIRST COUPLE EXCHANGES. I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU GOT USED TO IT
BUT THAT IS HOW I WAS ABLE TO
HEAR IT.
>> YOU ARE ABLE TO HEAR SOME OF
WHAT HE SAID  TO
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THE FIRST PART.
>> WHAT DID YOU HEAR HIM SAY TO
SONDLAND?
>> HE CLARIFY WHETHER HE WAS IN
UKRAINE ARE NOT  AS AN
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SAID
IF HE COULD DO THE
INVESTIGATION.
>> YOU HEARD PRESENT OF ACT
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND  IF HE IS
GOING TO DO THE INVESTIGATION?
>> YES, SIR.
>> WHAT WAS AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND'S RESPONSE?
>> HE SAID HE WILL DO ANYTHING
YOU ASK.
>> WAS AT THE END OF THE UKRAINE
PORTION OF THE CONVERSATION?
>> YES.
>> AFTERWARDS, YOU DESCRIBE A
FOLLOW-UP CONVERSATION THAT YOU
HAD WHERE YOU ASKED HIM
GENERALLY WHAT DID PRESIDENT
TRUMP THINK OF UKRAINE, IS THAT
RIGHT?
>> CRACKED.
>> WHAT DID HE SAY TO YOU?
>>
HE SAID HE DOESN'T CARE ABOUT
UKRAINE.
>> DID HE USE SLIGHTLY MORE
COLORFUL LANGUAGE?
>> HE DID.
>> WHAT DID HE SAY HE DOES CARE
ABOUT?
>> HE SAID HE CARES ABOUT BIG
STUFF.
>> DID HE SAY WHAT KIND OF BIG
STUFF?
>> I ASKED HIM WHAT KIND AND HE
SAID BIG STUFF LIKE THE BY AN
INVESTIGATION.
>> WERE YOU FAMILIAR WITH THE
BY THE INVESTIGATION THAT WAS
REFERENCED AT THAT POINT?
>> YES .
>> HOW DO YOU HAVE
SUCH A SPECIFIC AND CLEAR
RECOLLECTION OF THIS
CONVERSATION WITH THE PRESIDENT
AND YOUR CONVERSATION WITH
AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND.
>> THIS WAS A VERY DISTINCTIVE
EXPERIENCE  WITH MY FOREIGN
SERVICE CAREER AND SOMEONE AT A
LUNCH IN A RESTAURANT MAKING A
CALL ON A CELL PHONE TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BEING ABLE TO HEAR HIS VOICE
AND DISTINCTIVE PERSONALITY.
VERY COLORFUL LANGUAGE WAS USED
AND THEY WERE DIRECTLY
ADDRESSING SOMETHING THAT I HAVE
BEEN WONDERING
ABOUT WITH THE TOPIC THAT HAD
LED TO THE RECALL OF MY FORMER
BOSS AND HERE WAS A PERSON WHO
SAID HE HAD DIRECT CONTACT WITH
THE PRESIDENT AND HE SAID THAT
OVER THE COURSE OF TIME AND THEN
THEN TALKING ABOUT THIS ISSUE OF
THE BY AN INVESTIGATION
THAT I HAVE BEEN HEARING ABOUT.
>> JUST TO SUMMARIZE, DURING THE
PHONE CALL  THAT YOU OVERHEARD
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND HAVE WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP, YOU HEARD
PRESIDENT TRUMP HIMSELF  AS THE
ONLY QUESTION THAT YOU REALLY
HEARD HIM ASK WHICH IS WHETHER
HE WOULD DO THE INVESTIGATION.
TO WHICH AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
SAID HE WOULD DO ANYTHING THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WANTS.  IS
THAT ACCURATE?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> AFTER THAT CALL, YOU HAD A
SUBSEQUENT CONVERSATION WHERE HE
TOLD YOU THAT THE PRESIDENT
DOESN'T CARE ABOUT UKRAINE BUT
ONLY ABOUT BIG STUFF RELATED TO
HIMSELF AND PARTICULARLY THE BY
INVESTIGATION THAT GIULIANI WAS
PUSHING?
>> CORRECT.
>> A DAY BEFORE, PRESIDENT
TRUMP DID SPEAK WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AS YOU REFERRED  AND
CERTAINLY, THE PRESIDENT MADE IT
CLEAR THAT HE CARED ABOUT THE BY
AN INVESTIGATION. NEITHER OF YOU
LISTEN TO THIS CALL BUT AS YOU
TESTIFIED, YOU BOTH READ IT
SUBSEQUENT TO THE PUBLICATION.
DR. HILL, DURING YOUR TIME, YOU
LISTEN TO A NUMBER OF
PRESIDENTIAL PHONE CALLS. IS
THAT RIGHT?
>>
THAT IS RIGHT.
>> HE ASKED ME HOW MANY?
>> SOMETIMES THERE WOULD BE
MULTIPLE CALLS  DURING THE WEEK
AND I WAS THERE FOR MORE THAN
TWO YEARS.
>> HAVE YOU EVER HEARD A CALL
LIKE THIS ONE THAT YOU READ?
>> I DON'T WANT TO COMMENT ON
THIS CALL  BECAUSE IN MY VIEW IT
IS EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE. IN TERMS
OF THE TESTIMONY.
>> I THINK IT IS A THRESHOLD
MANNER AND THEIR ISSUES OF
CLASSIFICATION REGARDING HEAD OF
STATE COMMUNICATIONS  THAT WE DO
WANT TO BE SENSITIVE TO AMONG
OTHER ISSUES.
>> UNDERSTOOD BUT I'M JUST FOCUS
ON THIS ONE CALL THAT HAS BEEN
DECLASSIFIED AND WHETHER YOU HAD
HEARD ANY PRESIDENTIAL PHONE
CALL ALONG THESE LINES.
>> I WOULD JUST LIKE TO FOCUS
ON THIS PARTICULAR CALL AND I
WILL JUST SAY THAT I FOUND THIS
PARTICULAR CALL SUBJECT MATTER
AND THE WAY IT WAS CONDUCTED
SURPRISING.
>> YOU SAID IN YOUR DEPOSITION
TESTIMONY THAT YOU WERE SHOCKED
AND SADDENED  TO READ IT.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> WHY IS THAT?
>> BECAUSE OF THE NATURE OF THE
DISCUSSION AND ISSUES IN WHICH
THEY WERE RAISED AND GIVEN THE
FACT THAT I HAD OPPOSED
HAVING A CALL THAT WAS VERY WELL
PREPARED AND WE WERE CONFIDENT
THAT THE ISSUES THAT UKRAINE IN
THE UNITED STATES WERE GENERALLY
TOGETHER AND INTERESTED IN WOULD
BE RACE AND I SAW THAT THIS WAS
NOT THE CASE.
>> YOU TESTIFIED THAT THIS CALL
WAS TURNING
A WHITE HOUSE MEETING INTO SOME
KIND OF ASSET. DO YOU RECALL THE
TESTIMONY?
>> RECALL THE TESTIMONY BECAUSE
THIS WAS CLEARLY THE DISCUSSION
IN THE CALL TOOK PLACE THE
FOLLOWING WEEK.
IN THE MONTHS LEADING UP TO THAT
FROM MAY ONWARD, IT BECAME CLEAR
THAT THE MIGHT HOUSE MEETING WAS
BEEN PREDICATED ON OTHER ISSUES
WITH INVESTIGATIONS
AND QUESTIONS ABOUT THE ELECTION
INTERFERENCE.
>> MR. HOLMES, YOU INDICATED IN
YOUR OPENING STATEMENT  THAT THE
CHIEF OF STAFF HAD INDICATED TO
YOU THAT IN THIS PHONE CALL
THAT THERE WAS A DISCUSSION
ABOUT PERSONAL ISSUES RELATED TO
THE PROSECUTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE.
AFTER YOU READ THE CALL, DID YOU
UNDERSTAND WHO AND WHAT I WAS
REFERRING TO?
>> YES, SIR. IT WAS VERY
CONFUSING TO ME
WHY THAT WOULD'VE AN ISSUE THAT
WAS RAISED AND IT WASN'T UNTIL I
READ THE TRANSCRIPT THAT I
UNDERSTOOD THAT THE PRESIDENT
HAD SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED THE
PROSECUTOR GENERAL
WHO WAS REPLACING AND CARVING
OUT WOULD HAVE BEEN
COLLABORATING WITH SOME OF THE
CORRUPTION WE SOLVE.
>> I BELIEVE HE ALSO SAID THAT
THIS WAS THE SOURCE OF SOME OF
THE PUBLIC VIEWS OF MR. GIULIANI
,  IS THAT RIGHT?
>> YES, SIR, ABOUT TWO WEEKS
BEFORE THE PRESS WAVED AND
BEFORE IT BECAME PUBLIC, THEY
HAD REPORTED TO US THAT HE WAS
SENDING THESE MESSAGES
AND HAD MET WITH THE AMERICAN
JOURNALIST TO GET THOSE MESSAGES
OUT.
>> WHAT WAS THE U. S. EMBASSY IN
UKRAINE'S VIEW
OF THE PROSECUTOR GENERAL?
>> HE WAS NOT A GOOD PARTNER
AND HAD FAILED TO DELIVER ON THE
PROMISED REFORMS THAT HE HAD
COMMITTED TO WHEN HE TOOK OFFICE
AND HE WAS USING HIS OFFICE TO
PROTECT POLITICAL ALLIES
WHILE ENRICHING HIMSELF.
>> IS ANOTHER WAY TO DESCRIBE
THAT CORRUPT?
>> YES.
>> I WANT TO TAKE A COUPLE OF
EXPERTS  FROM THIS CALL AND THE
FIRST ONE OCCURS RIGHT AFTER
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY THANKED
PRESIDENT TRUMP  FOR THE SUPPORT
IN THE AREA OF DEFENSE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP IMMEDIATELY SAYS
I WOULD LIKE YOU TO DO US A
FAVOR
BECAUSE OUR COUNTRY HAS BEEN
THROUGH A LOT IN UKRAINE KNOWS A
LOT ABOUT IT. I WOULD LIKE YOU
TO FIND OUT WHAT HAPPENED WITH
THE WHOLE SITUATION WITH UKRAINE
AND I GUESS YOU HAVE ONE OF YOUR
WEALTHY PEOPLE.
IS THIS A REFERENCE TO THE
CONSPIRACY THEORY ABOUT UKRAINE
INTERFERENCE IN THE 2016
ELECTION THAT YOU DISCUSSED IN
YOUR OPENING STATEMENT AS WELL
?
>> YES, THAT IS CORRECT.
>> IT IS YOUR UNDERSTANDING THAT
THERE IS NO BASIS FOR THIS?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> IS IT TRUE THAT SOME OF THE
MOST SENIOR ADVISORS OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP  HAD INFORMED
HIM THAT THIS THEORY OF UKRAINE
INTERFERENCE IN THE ELECTION WAS
FALSE?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> IS IT YOUR UNDERSTANDING THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP DISREGARDED THE
ADVICE OF HIS  SENIOR OFFICIALS
ABOUT THIS?
>> THAT APPEARS TO BE THE CASE,
YES.
>> I WANTED TO SHOW ONE OTHER
EXHIBIT THAT GOES BACK TO WHAT
YOU ARE TESTIFYING EARLIER
ABOUT RUSSIA'S INTEREST IN
PROMOTING THIS. THIS IS AN
EXPERT
FROM THE 17 NEWS CONFERENCE WITH
PRESIDENT PUTIN WHERE HE HAS
SAID THAT
DURING THE CAMPAIGN, THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT ADOPTED A
UNILATERAL POSITION WITH ONE
CANDIDATE AND MORE THAN THAT,
WITH THE APPROVAL OF THE
POLITICAL LEADERSHIP, THEY
FUNDED THIS FEMALE CANDIDATE TO
BE MORE PRECISE.
MR. HOLMES, YOU SPENT THREE
YEARS IN THE U. S. EMBASSY IN
RUSSIA. I WOULD IT BE TO PUTIN'S
ADVANTAGED
TO PROMOTE THIS THEORY?
>> TO DEFLECT FROM RUSSIAN
INTERFERENCE  AND TO DRIVE A
WEDGE BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES
AND UKRAINE WHICH THEY WANTED TO
GET BACK
AND THIRDLY TO BESMIRCH UKRAINE
IN THE POLITICAL LEADERSHIP TO
DO GREAT IN A ROAD SUPPORT FROM
OTHER KEY PARTNERS FROM EUROPE
AND ELSEWHERE.
>> BY PROMOTING THIS THEORY,
WAS PRESIDENT TRUMP ADOPTING
VLADIMIR PUTIN'S VIEW OVER HIS
OWN SENIOR ADVISORS AND
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS?
>> I THINK WE HAVE TO BE VERY
CAREFUL ABOUT THE WAY THAT WE
PHRASE THAT.  THIS IS A VIEW
THAT PRESIDENT PUTIN AND THE
SECURITY SERVICES AND MANY
ACTORS HAVE PROMOTED AND I THINK
THIS VIEW HAS SOME TRACTION THAT
HAS BEEN PARALLEL IN THOSE TWO
THINGS OVER TIME ARE FUSED
TOGETHER.
>>
BACK IN MAY OF THIS YEAR, DO YOU
RECALL THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
A PHONE CONVERSATION?
>> I DO.
>> THAT HE ALSO MET IN MID-MAY
WITH THE PRIME MINISTER THAT HAD
JOINED PRESIDENT PUTIN AT THIS
CONVERSE?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THAT HAPPENED BETWEEN THE
TIME  WHEN PRESIDENT ZIELINSKI
WAS ELECTED ON APRIL 21
IN HIS INAUGURATION ON MAY 20.
IS THAT RIGHT?
>> CORRECT.
>> IN FACT, IS IT TRUE THAT HE
HAD ASKED  VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
TO ATTEND THE INAUGURATION
AFTER HIS PHONE CALL ON APRIL
21?
>> I'M NOT SURE THAT I CAN SAY
THAT HE HAD ASKED  VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE. I WAS NOT IN
ANY MEETING IN WHICH THAT TOOK
PLACE BUT I CAN SAY THAT I
MYSELF AND MANY OTHERS WERE
QUITE EAGER TO HAVE VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE GO TO UKRAINE TO
REPRESENT THE GOVERNMENT.
>> IS IT ALSO YOUR RECOLLECTION
MR. HOLMES THAT YOU WANTED VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE TO ATTEND?
>> YES, SIR AND WE UNDERSTOOD
THAT WAS THE PLAN.
>> JENNIFER WILLIAMS FROM THE
OFFICE TESTIFIED HERE THAT ON
MAY 13 WHICH WAS THE SAME DAY
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP MET WITH
THE PRIME MINISTER THAT THEY
CALLED OFF TRIPS
FOR UNKNOWN REASONS BUT BEFORE
THE INAUGURATION DATE HAD BEEN
SCHEDULED
IN DR. HILL, WERE YOU AWARE THAT
DURING THAT PERIOD
, THERE WAS A LOT OF PUBLICITY
AND I THINK YOU REFERENCED THIS
IN YOUR OPENING STATEMENT AS
WELL ABOUT RUDY GIULIANI'S
INTEREST IN THESE
INVESTIGATIONS?
>> I WAS CERTAINLY AWARE, YES.
>> AROUND THIS TIME,
I BELIEVE YOU ALSO TESTIFIED
THAT AMBASSADOR BOLTON HAD
EXPRESSED VIEWS TO YOU ABOUT MR.
GIULIANI'S INTEREST IN UKRAINE.
DO YOU RECALL WHAT YOU SAID?
>> I DO RECALL, IT WAS PART OF A
CONVERSATION  ABOUT THE THINGS
THAT THEY WERE SAYING IN PUBLIC
AND WE SAW THEM
OR SAW HIM OFTEN MAKING THESE
STATEMENTS AND I HAD ARTIE
BROUGHT HIS ATTENTION THE SMEAR
CAMPAIGN AND EXPRESSED REGRET
ABOUT HOW THIS WAS UNFOLDING IN
THE SHAMEFUL WAY IN WHICH THEY
WERE BEING SMEARED. I HAD ASKED
IF THERE IS ANYTHING WE COULD DO
ABOUT IT AND AMBASSADOR BOLTON
INDICATED WITH BODY LANGUAGE
THAT THERE WAS NOT MUCH WE COULD
DO ABOUT IT AND IN THE COURSE OF
THAT DISCUSSION SAID THAT
HE WOULD BLOW EVERYONE UP.
>> DID YOU UNDERSTAND WHAT HE
MEANT BY THAT?
>> I DID.
>> WHAT?
>> HE MET THIS WAS EXPLOSIVE IN
ANY CASE  AND HE WAS FREQUENTLY
ON TELEVISION MAKING REMARKS
ABOUT EVERYONE INVOLVED IN THIS
AND CLEARLY PUSHING
WHAT WOULD PROBABLY COME BACK TO
HAUNT US AND I THINK THAT IS
WHERE WE ARE TODAY.
>> DID THE UKRAINIANS UNDERSTAND
THAT RUDY GIULIANI REPRESENTED
THE PRESIDENTS VIEWS  TAX
>> I BELIEVE THEY DID. FIRST HE
WAS REACHING OUT TO THEM
DIRECTLY  IN THE REMOVAL HAVE
THIS INQUIRY BECAUSE SHE WAS
REMOVED FOLLOWING THIS CAMPAIGN
IN WHICH ASSOCIATES WERE VERY
PROMINENT IN CRITICIZING HER FOR
NOT TAKING SERIOUSLY SOME OF THE
THEORIES AND ISSUES AND WHEN HE
WAS REMOVED, COMMENTATORS
BELIEVED
IN GETTING HER REMOVED.
>> IT IS NOT QUITE RIGHT. THERE
WAS SOME MATERIALS RELATED TO
UKRAINE.
>> THAT PERSON INDICATE THAT I
THOUGHT THAT WAS THE DIRECTOR OF
UKRAINE?
>> THAT WAS CORRECT.
>> WHO IS THE DIRECTOR OF
UKRAINE?
>> COLONEL DENMAN.
>> WHO DID THIS INDIVIDUAL
REFER TO?
>>
THE INDIVIDUAL JUST SAID THE
NAME CASH.
>> DID YOU KNOW WHO THAT WAS?
>> INITIALLY , I HAD TO SERVE IN
SEARCH MY MIND BUT ALL I KNEW
WAS CASH PATEL.
>> HE DID NOT
OVERSEE UKRAINE MATTERS THAT YOU
OVERSAW?
>> NOT THAT I OVERSAW.
>> I HAVE PROVIDED SOME
INFORMATION DIRECTLY TO THE
PRESENT WITHOUT YOUR KNOWLEDGE?
>> DISTINCT INDICATION.
>> I WANT TO GO BACK TO THE JULY
25 CALL RIGHT NOW  WHERE
PRESIDENT TRUMP ANOTHER EXPERT
AT
HAD ASKED ABOUT JOE BIDEN. IN
THIS EXPERT
, BASED ON THE OTHER THINK
THERE'S A LOT OF TALK ABOUT
BIDEN SON THAT HE
TALKED ABOUT THE PRESENCE OF AND
WHAT YOU WANT TO FIND OUT ABOUT
THAT SO WHATEVER YOU CAN DO
WOULD BE GREAT. BUT ONE AROUND
BRAGGING THAT HE STOPPED THE
PROSECUTION SO IF YOU COULD LOOK
INTO IT. NOW, DR. HILL, THIS WAS
ONE OF THE ALLEGATIONS THAT RUDY
GIULIANI WAS PUSHING, IS THAT
RIGHT?
>>
RIGHT.
>> NOW DOES CONFIRM THAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS ALSO INTERESTED IN
IT?
>> YES.
>> AMBASSADORS VOLKER AND
SONDLAND HAVE TRIED TO DRAW A
DISTINCTION BETWEEN THEIR
UNDERSTANDING  OF THE CONNECTION
BETWEEN
BARIZMA AND THE BIDEN'S BUT WAS
IT APPEAR TO YOU THAT WHEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND RUDY
GIULIANI OR ANYONE ELSE WAS
PUSHING FOR AN INVESTIGATION
INTO BARIZMA THAT THE REASON
THEY WANTED THE INVESTIGATION
RELATED TO WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
SAID?
>> IT WAS VERY APPARENT THAT IT
WAS WHAT RUDY GIULIANI HAD
INTENDED  AND THAT THEY WERE
LINKED TO THE BIDEN AND HE SAID
THIS REPEATEDLY.
>> YOU ALSO UNDERSTOOD THAT
BARIZMA WAS GO FOR BIDEN'S?
>> YES.
>> DO YOU THINK ANYONE WOULD
UNDERSTAND THAT AS WELL?
>> YES.
>>
DR. HILL, ARE YOU AWARE OF ANY
EVIDENCE AGAINST
PRESIDENT BIDEN?
>> I AM NOT, NO.
>> IN FACT,
MR. HOLMES, THE FORMER
PROSECUTOR GENERAL OF UKRAINE
WHO VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN
ENCOURAGED TO FIRE
WAS ACTUALLY CORRUPT, IS THAT
RIGHT?
>> RIGHT.
>> AND WOULD NOT PURSUE
CORRUPTION INVESTIGATIONS AND
PROSECUTIONS, RIGHT?
>> MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
PROSECUTOR GENERAL AT THE TIME
WAS NOT PURSUING INVESTIGATIONS
OF THE REASON THE OR THE BIDENS.
>> IN FACT, REMOVING THAT
PROSECUTOR
WAS PART OF THE UNITED STATES
ANTICORRUPTION POLICY. IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> NOT JUST US BUT ALL OF OUR
ALLIES  THAT WERE INVOLVED AT
THE TIME.
>> DR. HILL, YOU INDICATED THAT
YOU HAD UNDERSTOOD THAT A WHITE
HOUSE MEETING WAS CONDITIONED ON
THE PURSUIT BY UKRAINE OF THESE
INVESTIGATIONS
AND I WANTED TO FOCUS ON WHERE
THAT CAME TO LIGHT. YOU
INDICATED IN YOUR TESTIMONY THAT
THERE WAS A LARGE MEETING THAT
AMBASSADOR BOLTON RAN
WHERE INVESTORS ONLINE AND
VOLKER AND. HE ATTENDED. IS THAT
RIGHT?
>> IS CORRECT.
>> WHY WERE THEY INCLUDED IN
THAT MEETING  ABOUT NATIONAL
SECURITY MATTERS?
>> THE INITIAL INTENT WAS TO
NOT INCLUDE THEM. THERE WERE A
NUMBER OF MEETINGS
AND THAT WAS WITH THE ENERGY
DEPARTMENT AND A REQUEST TO HAVE
AMBASSADORS SONDLAND AND
VOLKER FROM THEIR OFFICES AND AS
A RESULT OF THAT, GIVEN THE
IMPORTANT ROLE IN THE ENERGY
SECTOR AND IN THE DELEGATIONS
TO THE PRESIDENTIAL
INAUGURATION, WE DECIDED IT
WOULD BE BEST TO INCLUDE ALL
THREE OF THEM.
>> TOWARDS THE END OF THIS
MEETING, THE UKRAINIANS RAISED
THEIR ONGOING DESIRE FOR THE
OVAL OFFICE MEETING. IS THAT
RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> WHAT HAPPENED AFTER THEY DID
THAT?
>> I LISTENED VERY CAREFULLY TO
THE TESTIMONY YESTERDAY  SO I
WANT TO POINT OUT SOMETHING
WHERE IT EXPLAINS
WHY HE HAD A DIFFERENT
INTERPRETATION OF HOW THIS CAME
IN TO BE IN THE MEETING HAD BEEN
SCHEDULED
AND IT WAS DEFINITELY IN THE
WRAP UP PHASE IN THE MEETING
AND ALEXANDER
IS THE ADVISOR OF UKRAINE AND WE
WANTED TO GET INTO THE MEANS OF
HOW HE MIGHT RESPOND WITH THE
SECURITY COUNCIL AND HE WAS
LOOKING AT THE UNITED STATES
WAS OPINIONS AND THOUGHTS AND
WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN AND ALSO
WANTED TO GO THROUGH DISCUSSION
ABOUT HOW IMPORTANT IT WAS TO
GET THE ENERGY SECTOR REFORM
UNDERWAY AND TO HAVE SOME
TALKING POINTS AND THEN WE KNEW
THAT THEY WOULD HAVE THAT
QUESTION
ABOUT THE MEETING SO AS WE GET
TO THE MAIN DISCUSSION, WE ARE
GOING INTO THAT WRAP UP PHASE
AND THEY START TO ASK ABOUT
WHITE HOUSE MEETINGS AND
AMBASSADOR BOLTON WAS TRYING TO
CARRY US BACK. THE NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR IS NOT
IN CHARGE OF SCHEDULING AND WE
HAVE INPUT RECOMMENDING THE
MEETINGS AND THIS GOES TO THE
WHOLE PROCESS SO IT IS NOT HIS
ROLE TO PULL OUT THE SCHEDULE
AND SAY WE WILL LOOK AT THIS AND
TO DISCUSS THE DETAILS OF THESE
MEETINGS, HE LIKES TO LEAVE THEM
TO THE APPROPRIATE STAFF AND
THIS WILL ALREADY BE AN
UNCOMFORTABLE ISSUE. AMBASSADOR
BOLTON WAS TRYING TO MOVE THAT
DISCUSSION AWAY AND DEFLECTED TO
ANOTHER WRAP-UP TOPIC AND HE
LEANED IN TO SAY WE HAVE AN
AGREEMENT THAT THEY WILL BE
MEETING AND THIS IS THE
SECOND INVESTIGATION PUT
UNDERWAY AND THAT WAS WHEN I SAW
AMBASSADOR BOLTON AND I WAS
SITTING BEHIND HIM IN THE CHAIR
AND I SAW HIM SET BACK SLIGHTLY
LIKE THIS
AND HE HAD BEEN MOVING FORWARD
TO THE TABLE AND TO ME THAT WAS
UNMISTAKABLE BODY LANGUAGE AND I
CAUGHT MY ATTENTION AND THAT HE
LOOKS UP TO THE CLOCK AND HIS
WATCH, I WAS SITTING BEHIND HIM
AND BASICALLY HE SAID IT HAS
BEEN GREAT TO SEE YOU
BUT I'M AFRAID I'VE GOT ANOTHER
MEETING.
>> DID AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SAY
WHO HIS AGREEMENT ON THIS WHITE
HOUSE MEETING WAS WITH?
>> I DON'T BELIEVE SO. IT WAS
LATER WHICH I'M SURE YOU WILL
WANT TO TALK ABOUT THAT HE SAID
SOMETHING SPECIFIC.
>> WHAT DID HE SAY?
>> THAT HE HAD THE CHIEF OF
STAFF  MEETING.
>> WAS HE SPECIFIC AT THAT POINT
ABOUT THE INVESTIGATIONS HE WAS
REFERRING TO?
>>
HE SAID INVESTIGATIONS INTO
BARIZMA.
>> DID YOU HAVE A CONVERSATION
AFTER THE SUBSEQUENT MEETING
?
>> I HAD DISCUSSION BOTH AFTER
THE MEETING IN HIS OFFICE IN A
VERY BRIEF ONE  BUT THEN A
MEETING WITH THE SUBSEQUENT
MEETING.
>> THE SUBSEQUENT MEETING WHEN
YOU SPOKE TO HIM AND RELAYED TO
HIM WHAT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND SAID, WHAT DID
AMBASSADOR BOLTON SAY TO YOU?
>> I WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THAT
AMBASSADOR BOLTON WANTED ME TO
HOLD BACK IN THE ROOM AND I WAS
SITTING
WITH A COLLEAGUE.
>> JUST IN THAT SECOND MEETING,
WHAT DID HE SAY?
>> HE WAS MAKING A STRONG POINT
OF WHAT WAS BEING SAID  AND WHEN
I CAME BACK, HE HAD SPECIFIC
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ME.
>> WHAT WAS THAT?
>> IT WAS THAT I HAD TO GO TO
THE LAWYERS WITH THE SENIOR
COUNSEL
TO SAY I AM NOT PART OF WHATEVER
DRUG DEAL THAT THEY ARE COOKING
UP.
>> WHAT DID YOU UNDERSTAND THAT
TO MEAN  WITH THE JUDGE OF THAT
THEY WERE COOKING UP?
>> I TOOK IT TO MEAN
INVESTIGATIONS  FOR A MEETING.
>> DID YOU SPEAK TO THE LAWYERS?
>> I CERTAINLY DID.
>> YOU RELATE EVERYTHING THAT
YOU JUST TOLD US?
>> I RELAYED IT PRECISELY IN
THE DETAILS OF HOW THE MEETING
UNFOLDED AND I GIVE A FULL
DESCRIPTION.
>> MR. HOLMES, YOU HAVE
TESTIFIED THAT BY LATE AUGUST,
YOU HAD A CLEAR IMPRESSION
THAT THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
HOLD WAS SOMEHOW CONNECTED TO
THE INVESTIGATIONS THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTED. HOW DID
YOU CONCLUDE OR MAKE THAT CLEAR
CONCLUSION?
>>
WE HAD BEEN HEARING ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATION SINCE MARCH MONTHS
BEFORE AND THERE WAS A LETTER
FROM THE PRESIDENT
SAYING HE WAS PLEASED TO MEET
HIM FOLLOWING THE INAUGURATION
IN MAY AND WE HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE
TO GET THAT MEETING AND THEN
SOMETHING CAME UP WITH NO
EXPEDITION AND WE DISCUSSED
EARLIER
THAT WHEN THEY RECEIVED NO
EXPLANATION FOR WHY THAT WAS IN
PLACE
THAT THEY WOULD DRAW THAT
CONCLUSION.
>> BECAUSE THE INVESTIGATIONS
WERE STILL BEING PURSUED IN THE
HOLD WAS STILL REMAINING WITHOUT
ANY EXPLANATION?
>> RIGHT.
>> SO THIS WAS THE ONLY LOGICAL
CONCLUSION THAT YOU COULD REACH?
>> RIGHT.
>> KIND OF LIKE
2+2 = 4?
>> EXACTLY.
>> THAT INCLUDES THE QUESTIONING
AND WE ARE EXPECTED HAVE VOTES
FAIRLY SOON. THIS WOULD BE AN
APPROPRIATE TIME TO BREAK AND WE
WILL RESUME AND IF PEOPLE BEFORE
THEY LEAVE COULD ALLOW THE
WITNESSES TO LEAVE FIRST AND THE
COMMITTEE MEMBERS COULD COME
BACK PROMPTLY AFTER VOTES.
>> THE MEETING WILL BE IN
RECESS.
>>> THIS MEETING WILL COME TO
ORDER. THE CHAIR NOW RECOGNIZES
THE NEXT ROUND FOR QUESTIONS.
>> I WANT TO GET A FEW BASIC
FACTS WITH THE INDIVIDUALS THAT
WERE INVOLVED IN THE 2016
ELECTION JUST TO SEE WHO YOU
KNOW AND WHO YOU HAVE MET WITH.
I WILL START WITH YOU, MR.
HOLMES. DO YOU KNOW ALEXANDRA
CHALUPA ?
>> COULD YOU PUT YOUR MICROPHONE
ON?
>> NO.
>> DO YOU KNOW
NELLY ORE?
BRUCE ORE?
GLEN SIMPSON?
>> NO.
>> SAME THING FOR YOU DR. HILL,
DO YOU KNOW ALEXANDRA CHALUPA?
>> NELLY ORE?
>> NO.
>> BRUCE ORE?
>> ONLY FROM YEARS AGO .
>> GLEN SIMPSON?
>> NO.
>> YOU SAID IN YOUR DEPOSITION
THAT CHRISTOPHER STEELE  WAS
YOUR COUNTERPART
AT ONE TIME. IS THIS CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> TESTIFIED THAT YOU MET WITH
CHRISTOPHER STEELE IN 2016 AND I
ASSUME THAT IS STILL CORRECT.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THE ONLY THING WE DID NOT GET
IS  DO YOU KNOW ABOUT WHEN THAT
WAS IN 2016 AND HOW MANY TIMES?
>> I'M AFRAID I DON'T. I
ACTUALLY MET WITH HIM AND YOU
ASKED ME THE DEPOSITION THE MOST
RECENT TIME IN 2016 AND HE
RETIRED FROM THE RUSSIAN
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES IN 2009.
>> RIGHT, I'M ASKING ABOUT 2016.
>> I DO NOT RECALL.
I DID MEET BUT I DON'T REMEMBER
THE DATE.
>> YOU STATED IN YOUR DEPOSITION
THAT A COLLEAGUE HAD SHOWED YOU
THE STILL DOSSIER BEFORE IT WAS
PUBLISHED.  WHO WAS THAT
COLLEAGUE?
>> THAT WAS ONE OF MY
COLLEAGUES AT THE BOOKING
INSTITUTION.
>> WHO WAS THAT?
>> THAT WAS PRESIDENT STROBE
THAT HAD BEEN SENT A COPY TO
THIS. THAT WAS THE DAY BEFORE IT
WAS PUBLISHED.
>> YOU MENTIONED IN YOUR
DEPOSITION THAT YOU THOUGHT IT
WAS  -- THIS IS AN EXACT QUOTE,
"THAT THE DOSSIER WAS A RABBIT
HOLE."
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> DO YOU KNOW WHO PAID
TO GENERATE THE STEEL DOSSIERS
FOR SEVERAL OF THEM?
>> AT THE TIME I DID NOT KNOW
BUT I UNDERSTAND FROM THE MEDIA
THAT IT WAS DUE GPS FUSION AND
IF THAT IS NOT CORRECT  --
>> THERE WAS A LAW FIRM
INVOLVED.  DO YOU KNOW WHO THE
SOURCE OF THE MONEY WAS?
>> I DID NOT AT THE TIME. I'VE
READ THE REPORTS AND THANKS TO
YOUR COLLEAGUES AS WELL THAT IT
WAS THE DNC AS I AM LED TO
BELIEVE.
>> AND EQUIPMENT CAMPAIGN?
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT FOR SURE.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON AND WELCOME
BACK FROM LUNCH. I HOPE YOU HAD
TO WHICH IS OR SOMETHING
DELICIOUS.
>> I HOPE YOU DID TOO.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE
AND PARTICIPATION. WE WERE WITH
YOU MOST OF THE DAY SO I
APPRECIATE THAT. MR. HOLMES,
THANK YOU AS WELL. YOU ARE A
LATE ENTRANCE INTO THE SITUATION
AND THINGS STARTED ESCALATE
QUICKLY. WE SPOKE WITH YOU LAST
FRIDAY NIGHT ABOUT WHAT WE
THOUGHT WOULD BE A 32nd THING
AND IT TURNS OUT WITH YOUR 40
MINUTE OPENER THAT YOU HAVE A
LOT OF INFORMATION TO SHARE SO
WE APPRECIATE YOU BEING HERE.
DR. HILL, YOUR LAST DAY AT THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL WAS ON
JULY 19, IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> YOU ARE INVOLVED WITH THE
JULY 25 CALL  BUT YOU WEREN'T
INVOLVED WITH ANY OF THE
RELEVANT ACTIVITIES WITH THE
PAUSE IN THE AID?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> DID YOU BELIEVE THAT A CALL
WAS GOING TO BE SCHEDULED  FOR
THE 25th?
>> I PERSONALLY DO NOT BELIEVE
IT WOULD BE SCHEDULED THAT DAY,
NO.
>> WHAT WAS THE THINKING AT THE
NFC AS OF JULY 19  ABOUT THIS
CALL?
>> I HAVE LEARNED FROM OTHER
DEPOSITIONS  TO BE CLEAR HERE
THAT PERHAPS THERE WAS SOME
AWARENESS THAT THERE MIGHT BE A
CALL AND INVESTOR SONDLAND AS
YOU MAY RECALL  SHARED AN
EXCHANGE WITH THE PERSON
THAT INDICATED THAT THEY WOULD
BE A CALL COMING BUT I WAS NOT
AWARE OF THAT. THERE WERE
DIFFERENCES LET'S JUST SAY IN
UNDERSTANDING ABOUT THAT CALL.
>> WERE YOU IN FAVOR OF SUCH A
CALL?
>> ACTUALLY, I WAS NOT
AND I DID SAY SOMETHING ABOUT
THAT IN THE OPENING PART OF THE
SESSION TODAY.
>> HOW ABOUT AMBASSADOR BOLTON
TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE?
>> I KNOW INVESTOR SONDLAND SAID
IN THE EMAIL THAT  BOLTON WAS IN
AGREEMENT BUT TO MY KNOWLEDGE,
HE WAS NOT IN AGREEMENT
TO MY KNOWLEDGE.
>> YOU KNOW WHAT HIS DEPOSITION
WAS?
>> BASED ON THE FACT THAT IT WAS
NOT PROPERLY PREPARED AND WE
WANTED TO MAKE SURE  THAT THEY
WOULD BE AN AGENDA THAT WAS
DISCUSSED WHICH IS USUAL WITH
THESE CALLS.
>> WERE YOU SURPRISED
THAT A CALL ULTIMATELY WAS
SCHEDULED?
>> I WAS WHEN I LEARNED ABOUT
IT.
>> DID YOU HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATION WITH ANYONE  ABOUT
HOW THAT CAME TO BE?
>> I DID NOT.
>> YOU DID LEARN ABOUT THE PODS
IN THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE AID.
>> I LEARNED ABOUT THAT JULY 18,
THE DAY BEFORE I LEFT.
>> THERE WERE SEVERAL MEETINGS
ABOUT THIS  I BELIEVE YOU
TESTIFIED TO.
>> I SAID I KNEW THERE WOULD BE
A MEETING  AND THERE WAS ONE PUT
UNDER THE SCHEDULE SO I DIDN'T
ATTEND THAT.
>> IS IT FAIR TO SAY THAT IT
STOPS AND STARTS  IN A LIKE THIS
AND THAT SOMETIMES HAPPENS?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> I BELIEVE YOU TESTIFIED THAT
THERE WAS A FREEZE PUT ON ALL
KINDS OF AID  AND ASSISTANCE
BECAUSE IT WAS IN THE PROCESS
AND AT THAT TIME THERE WERE
SIGNIFICANT REVIEWS OF FOREIGN
ASSISTANCE GOING ON?
>> THAT IS ALSO CORRECT.
>> WHAT ELSE CAN YOU TELL US
ABOUT THAT?
>> AS I UNDERSTOOD, BEING A
DIRECTIVE FOR A WHOLE SCALE
REVIEW OF THE FOREIGN POLICY AND
THE ASSISTANT IN THE TIES
BETWEEN THE FOREIGN POLICY
OBJECTIVES IN THE ASSISTANCE,
THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR MANY
MONTHS AND IT APPEARED WHEN I
WAS WRAPPING UP MY TIME THAT
THERE HAS BEEN MORE SCRUTINY
THAN SPECIFIC ASSISTANCE AND THE
RESULT OF THE OVERALL REVIEW.
>> AT THIS TIME AS WELL ,
AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND HAD BECOME A LITTLE
MORE  INVOLVED WITH UKRAINE
POLICY?
>> AMBASSADOR VOLKER WAS ALWAYS
INVOLVED  IN UKRAINE POLICY ONLY
SINCE THE BEGINNING OF HIS
APPOINTMENT WITH THE
NEGOTIATIONS TOWARDS THE WALL
BETWEEN UKRAINE AND RUSSIA.
>> WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT
AMBASSADOR VOLKER?
>> HE IS AN EXTRAORDINARY
ACCOMPLISHED DIPLOMAT. I WORKED
WITH HIM PREVIOUSLY AND
HE HAS HAD A NUMBER OF POSITIONS
WITH THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND I
KNOW HIM PERSONALLY.
WHEN WE ARE TRYING TO GET TO
KNOW TO AND WHO'S MET WHO, I
KNOW PERSONAL LEVEL
MR. VOLKER.
>> YOU SAY HE IS ALWAYS ACT IN
THE BEST INTEREST OF THE UNITED
STATES?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> WHEN DID YOU FIRST LEARN OF
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND IS
INVOLVEMENT?
>> IT CAME IN WAVES. HE HAD
LOGICAL INVOLVEMENT IN THE
UKRAINE PORTFOLIO AND WILL WORK
CLOSELY WITH THE EUROPEAN UNION
ON MATTERS RELATED TO UKRAINE IN
THE UKRAINIAN DIALOGUE WITH
RUSSIA WAS IN A FORMAT WHICH WAS
LED BY THE FRENCH AND THE
GERMANS AND AMBASSADOR VOLKER
WAS TRYING TO FIND OUT WHERE HE
COULD WORK CLOSELY WITH THE
FRENCH AND GERMANS TO MOVE ALONG
THE RESOLUTION OF THE CONFLICT
BETWEEN UKRAINE AND RUSSIA WILL
AND OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION
AS THE UMBRELLA ORGANIZATION FOR
EUROPE IN TERMS OF FUNDING AND
ASSISTANCE WAS HEAVILY ACTIVE
IN OFFERING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
TO THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT AS
WELL AS HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
IN THE CONFLICT SO IT WAS
PERFECTLY LOGICAL BUT THEY
PLAYED SOME KIND OF ROLE TO THE
EUROPEAN UNION.
>> DID YOU HAVE ANY CONCERNS
WHEN HE PRESENTED HIMSELF TO YOU
AS SOMEBODY WITH A MAJOR ROLE?
>> I DID AT THE TIME IN WHICH
HE PRESENTED IT TO ME. THIS WAS
AFTER AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH WAS
PUSHED OUT OF HER  POSITION AND
IT WAS SONDLAND'S ROLE
TO GROW LARGER.
>> DID YOU FIRST ANY CONCERNS TO
HIM  DIRECTLY?
>> I DID.
>> WHAT WERE THOSE CONCERNS?
>> I ASKED HIM QUITE BLUNTLY IN
A MEETING WE HAD IN JUNE 2019
AND THIS IS AFTER THE
PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURATION WHEN I
HAD SEEN THAT HE HAD STARTED TO
STEP UP AND MUCH MORE OF A
PROACTIVE ROLE ON UKRAINE WITH
WHAT HIS ROLE WAS HERE AND HE
SAID HE WAS IN CHARGE OF UKRAINE
AND I SAID WHO PUT YOU IN CHARGE
AND HE SAID THE PRESIDENT.
>> DOES THAT SURPRISE YOU WHAT
HE TOLD YOU THAT?
>> IT DID SURPRISE ME BECAUSE
WE HAD NO DIRECTIVE AND HAD NOT
BEEN TOLD THIS AND AMBASSADOR
BOLTON HAD NEVER INDICATED IN
ANY WAY THAT HE THOUGHT
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND WAS PLAYING
A LEADING ROLE.
>> I BELIEVE USE THE TERM A
LARGE  REMIT THAT HE
CHARACTERIZE HE HAD BEEN GIVEN A
LARGE REMIT?
>> I CAN'T REMEMBER BUT IT WAS
PORTFOLIO AND THESE ARE ALL
SYNONYMS. HE WAS TALKING ABOUT
THE FACT THAT HE HAD BEEN GIVEN
A BROAD PORTFOLIO AND HE SAID
HIS JOB WAS TO GO OUT AND MAKE
DEALS AND I LISTEN TO HIS
TESTIMONY VERY CAREFULLY AS WELL
BUT HE SAID ANYTHING THAT HAD TO
DO WITH THE EU ITSELF IN THE
EUROPEAN
MEMBERSHIP WAS WITHIN HIS
PORTFOLIO.
>> WE ASKED AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
IN HIS DEPOSITION AND HE
CONCEDED  THAT HE MAY HAVE BEEN
SPINNING A LITTLE BIT WHEN HE
SAID THE PRESIDENT SPECIFICALLY
GAVE HIM THAT ROLE AND HE
INDICATED THAT HIS AUTHORITY WAS
COMING MORE FROM THE SECRETARY
OF STATE.
AT ANY POINT IN TIME, WAS THAT
RELATED TO YOU?
>> AT DIFFERENT POINTS, HE
MENTIONED TALKING  DIRECTLY TO
THE CHIEF OF STAFF AND SECRETARY
POMPEO BUT THERE WERE OTHER
PEOPLE IN THE ROOM IN THE
MEETING IN WHICH HE ASSERTED
THIS TO ME THAT IT WAS THE
PRESIDENT THAT HAD PUT HIM IN
CHARGE OF THIS.
>> WERE YOU ENCOURAGED AS OF
YOUR LAST DAY IN OFFICE  THAT U.
S. POLICY TOWARDS UKRAINE WAS
HEADED IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION?
>> I WAS NOT.
>> WHY WAS THAT?
>> I WAS CONCERNED ABOUT TWO
THINGS IN PARTICULAR. ONE WAS
THE REMOVAL OF THE AMBASSADOR
AND AGAIN I WILL SAY FOR THE
RECORD THAT THE PRESIDENT HAS A
PERFECT RIGHT TO REMOVE ANY
AMBASSADOR AT ANY TIME FOR ANY
REASON BUT I WAS VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH
HER REPUTATION HAD BEEN MALIGNED
REPEATEDLY ON TELEVISION AND ALL
KINDS OF EXCHANGES AND I THOUGHT
THAT WAS COMPLETELY UNNECESSARY.
IF THE PRESIDENT WANTED TO
REMOVE AN INVESTOR WHICH HE DID
QUITE FREQUENTLY WITH THOSE THAT
WERE NOT POLITICAL BUT CAREER
OFFICIALS AND THAT WAS THAT BUT
WITHOUT THESE KINDS OF
INTERVENTIONS. I WONDERED WHAT
MESSAGE WAS BEING SENT AND THEN
IN THE SECOND FRONT, IT WAS VERY
CLEAR AT THIS POINT
THAT THERE WAS A DIFFERENT
CHANNEL IN OPERATION IN
RELATIONS TO UKRAINE. ONE THAT
WAS DOMESTIC AND POLITICAL IN
NATURE AND VERY DIFFERENT FROM
THE CHANNEL OR LOOP HOWEVER YOU
LIKE IT BUT MY AND MY COLLEAGUES
WERE IN WHERE WE ARE FOCUSED ON
RELATIONS AND U. S. POLICY
TOWARDS UKRAINE AND THESE THINGS
HAD DIVERSE AT THIS POINT.
>> IN THE RUN TO AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH SEPARATION, DID YOU
HAVE ANY CAN VACATION WITH
OFFICIALS AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT ABOUT YOUR CONCERNS?
>> I DID.
>> WHO DID YOU REALLY THOSE
CONCERNS TO?
>> TO MY COUNTERPART WHO I KNOW
YOU HAVE SPOKEN TO. I ALSO HAVE
SPOKE TO DEBBIE HALE
WITH LARGER ISSUES AS WELL AND
HAVE A BROAD PORTFOLIO MYSELF.
WE WOULD TALK ABOUT INDIVIDUAL
ITEMS THAT I HAVE PRIVATE
SESSIONS WITH THE DEPUTY
SECRETARY AND HE APPEARED WITH
HIS NOMINATION AND HAS SPOKEN
ABOUT THAT HIMSELF.
>> YOU ADVOCATED ALL OF THOSE
OFFICIALS  ABOUT YOUR CONCERNS
ABOUT THE INFORMATION BEING
SPREAD ABOUT AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THE TERM ADMINISTRATION
CHANGE COURSES FROM ITS
PREDECESSOR  AND PROVIDED
DEFENSIVE ASSISTANCE TO THE
UKRAINE. WERE YOU IN FAVOR OF
ARMING THE UKRAINIANS?
>> I WAS NOT INITIALLY IN 2015
BEFORE I JOINED THE GOVERNMENT
AND I'M SURE MANY PEOPLE ON THE
COMMITTEE HAVE SEEN THAT I WROTE
AN OPINION PIECE WITH A
COLLEAGUE IN THAT JUNCTURE
BECAUSE I WAS VERY WORRIED THAT
AT THAT PARTICULAR POINT IN TIME
THAT THE UKRAINIAN MILITARY WAS
NOT IN THE STATE TO TAKE ON
THOSE SOPHISTICATED WEAPONS
BEING DEFENSIVE OR OFFENSIVE
WEAPONS AND I WAS WORRIED THAT
THERE WAS NOT A LONG-TERM
SUSTAINABLE PLAN GIVING THE
OVERLY FORCE THAT THE RUSSIANS
COULD APPLY AGAINST THE
UKRAINIANS. HOWEVER, WHEN I CAME
INTO GOVERNMENT
IN 2016 AND STARTED TO INTERACT
WITH ALL OF MY COLLEAGUES IN THE
PENTAGON, I REALIZED IN FACT
THAT THERE HAD BEEN AN AWFUL LOT
OF WORK DONE ON THIS IN THE LAWS
ARE CLEAR AND CONSISTENT TO PLAN
FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY LONG-TERM
OF THE UKRAINIAN MILITARY SO I
CHANGED MY MIND.
>> OKAY, I BELIEVE YOU ARE THE
ONLY WITNESS WE HAVE SPOKEN TO
THAT HAS BEEN ABLE TO ARTICULATE
THE OPPOSITION AND PROVIDING THE
JAVELINS AND AS WE UNDERSTAND IT
, DURING THE OBAMA
DEMONSTRATION, THE AGENCY
CONSENSUS WAS IN FACT TO PROVIDE
THE JAVELINS BUT THEY WERE NOT
PROVIDED. WERE YOU AWARE OF THAT
DECISION BACK THEN?
>> I WAS THEN I THINK IT WAS
WHEN ON A LOCAL BASIS TO PROVOKE
THE RUSSIANS DEPENDING ON HOW
THIS WAS PRESENTED AND WE WERE
VERY MINDFUL OF THAT WHEN THERE
WERE DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THE
LETHAL DEFENSIVE WEAPONS.
>> MR. HOLMES, YOU ARE ON THE
GROUND AND
THE JAVELINS HAVE BEEN
AUTHORIZED AND PROVIDED. WHAT IS
THE VIEW FROM THE FIELD OF THE
U. S. EMBASSY AS TO THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE JAVELINS?
>>
THEY ARE AN IMPORTANT STRATEGIC
DETERRENT. THEY ARE NOT ACTIVELY
EMPLOYED IN COMBAT OPERATIONS
RIGHT NOW BUT THE MERE IDEA THAT
WERE THE RUSSIANS TO ADVANCE
SUBSTANTIALLY, UKRAINIANS WOULD
HAVE THIS CAPABILITY AND THAT
DETERS THEM FROM DOING SO AND
ALSO SENDS AN IMPORTANT SYMBOL
OR SYMBOLIC MESSAGE TO THE
UKRAINIAN MILITARY THAT THEY
HAVE ACCESS TO THE HIGH-END
TECHNOLOGY AND WE TRUST THEM TO
DO IT AND ALSO THAT THEY HAVE
OFFERED TO BUY SOME USING THEIR
OWN FUNDS FOR A PROGRAM TO DO
THAT BUT THEY HAVE NOT OFFERED
TO SUSPEND THEIR OWN MONEY TO
BUY MORE SO I THINK THEY THINK
THEY ARE IMPORTANT.
>> MR. KENT HAS TESTIFIED THAT
THIS IS IN FACT THE CONSENSUS OF
THE INTERAGENCY PROVIDING THE
JAVELINS.
IN YOUR EXPERIENCE WORKING WITH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, WAS HE ALSO
VERY MUCH AN ADVOCATE FOR THIS?
>> YES.
>> MR. HOLMES, I WANT TO GO
BACK TO SOME AMERICANS. I WANT
TO TALK ABOUT THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.
ARE YOU FAMILIAR WITH
LASHINKO?
>> YES.
>> HE WAS A JOURNALIST AND
CURRENTLY IN THE PARLIAMENT?
>> JOURNALIST AGAIN.
>> ARE YOU AWARE THAT WHEN HE
WAS IN THE PARLIAMENT THAT HE
HAD PROVIDED INFORMATION TO USE
GPS OPERATIVE NAME
NELLY ORE?
>> I AM NOT AWARE BUT AS A
JOURNALIST, HE HAS PROVIDED
INFORMATION.
>> HE WAS IN THE PARLIAMENT AT
THE TIME AND PROVIDED
THE BLACK LEDGER. HAVE YOU EVER
HEARD OF THE BLACK LEDGER?
>> I HAVE.
>>
IS THE BLACK LEDGER SEEN AS
CREDIBLE INFORMATION?
>> YES.
>> IS CREDIBLE?
>> ROBERT MILLER DID NOT FIND
IT CREDIBLE. DO YOU DISPUTE WHAT
HIS FINDINGS WERE? THEY DIDN'T
USE IN THE PROSECUTION OR
REPORT.
>> I'M NOT AWARE THAT HE DID NOT
FIND IT CREDIBLE  BUT I THINK IT
WAS EVIDENCE AND OTHER
PROCEEDINGS AND CREDIBILITY WAS
NOT QUESTIONED.
>> THE MOTIVATION
AS REPORTED
WAS TO GO AFTER TRUMP CAMPAIGN
OFFICIALS AND UNDERMINE TRUMP'S
CANDIDACY. ARE YOU AWARE OF
THAT?
>> IF YOU MEAN BY THE RELEASE OF
THE BLACK LEDGER, I THINK  THE
MOTIVATION WAS THE SAME HE HAS
ALWAYS EXPRESSED.
>> HE ADMITTED THAT THE
MOTIVATION WAS TO THESE PARTLY
UNDERMINED THE TRUMP
CANDIDACY THAT HE DID NOT
SUPPORT.
>> HE DID NOT SAY THAT TO ME BUT
IF HE SAID THAT TO YOU,  I WILL
TAKE YOUR WORD FOR IT.
>> YOU ARE AWARE AND YOU HEARD
DR. HILL'S TESTIMONY ABOUT THE
STILL DOSSIER THAT CONTAINED THE
INITIAL INFORMATION. WERE YOU
AWARE THAT THE DEMOCRATS HAD
PAID FOR THAT INFORMATION?
>> I NEVER HAD ANY INVOLVEMENT .
>> I'M NOT ACCUSING INVOLVEMENT.
I'M NOT EVEN ASKING IF YOU KNEW
AT THE TIME BUT YOU NOW KNOW
TODAY THAT THE DEMOCRATS HAVE
PAID FOR THAT INFORMATION?
>> I WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT ALL
THAT HAPPENED BEFORE  SO I DON'T
HAVE ANY FIRST-HAND --
>> I AM NOT
ACCUSING YOU OF ANYTHING.
>> I UNDERSTAND BUT I WANT TO BE
CLEAR. I HAVE READ ABOUT THOSE
ISSUES  BUT I'M NOT AN EXERT ON
THEM.
>> YOU ARE NOT DISPUTING THAT
THE DEMOCRATS AND THE CLINTON
CAMPAIGN
WERE THE SOURCE OF FUNDS THAT
FUNDED THE STILL DOSSIER.
>> I WOULD NOT BE IN A POSITION
TO DISPUTE THAT.
>> DO YOU THINK IT IS
APPROPRIATE FOR  POLITICAL
PARTIES TO RUN OPERATIVES IN
FOREIGN COUNTRIES TO DIG UP DIRT
ON THEIR OPPONENTS?
>> NO.
>> DR. HILL, DO YOU THINK IT IS
APPROPRIATE FOR POLITICAL
PARTIES TO PAY OPERATIVES TO DIG
UP DIRT ON THEIR OPPONENTS?
>> I DO NOT.
>>
WAS TURNED TO PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY'S INAUGURATION.
AMBASSADOR VOLKER TESTIFIED THAT
HE WAS VERY PLEASED
WITH THE SIZE OF THE DELEGATION
ALTHOUGH THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS
UNABLE TO MAKE THE TRIP,
SECRETARY PERRY AND AMBASSADOR
VOLKER AND I UNDERSTAND DR. HILL
THAT YOU WERE INVOLVED WITH SOME
OF THE LOGISTICS INPUTTING THE
DELEGATION TOGETHER. WHAT CAN
YOU TELL US ABOUT THE VICE
PRESIDENT'S ROLE IN ATTENDING OR
NOT ATTENDING?
>> I KNOW YOU HAVE THE
TESTIMONY OF JENNIFER WILLIAMS
AND I DEFER TO HER AS BEING MUCH
CLOSER TO THE DECISION-MAKING
ABOUT THE VICE PRESIDENT'S
ATTENDANCE. I WILL SAY THAT I
AND MANY OTHERS HOPED THAT THE
VICE PRESIDENT WOULD BE ABLE TO
ATTEND AND WHAT I KNOW FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE BECAUSE I WAS NOT
INVOLVED IN DISCUSSIONS WITH THE
VICE PRESIDENT WAS THAT THERE
WERE SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
SCHEDULE AND AS YOU ALL KNOW,
THE PRESIDENT INVITED OR HE WAS
OUT OF THE COUNTRY AT THE SAME
TIME. THERE WERE QUESTIONS ABOUT
PRESIDENTIAL TROUBLE IN THE SAME
TIMEFRAME AND THERE WAS QUITE A
BIT OF BACK AND FORTH AS TO
WHETHER IT WOULD BE FEASIBLE FOR
THE VICE PRESIDENT TO GO SO THAT
WAS WHAT I WAS AWARE OF. I WAS
NOT AWARE OF THE EXTENT OF THE
DISCUSSIONS THAT MS. WILLIAMS
WAS INVOLVED IN.
>> THE PRESIDENT WAS TRAVELING
AND HEADED TO EUROPE FOR THE
TWO-DAY ANNIVERSARY AND WHAT MS.
WILLIAMS PROVIDED
AND AS IT TURNED OUT, THE
UKRAINIANS DECIDED I BELIEVE IT
WAS ON MAY 16 TO SCHEDULE THE
INAUGURATION FOR FOUR DAYS LATER
AND BY THIS POINT IN TIME, THE
VICE PRESIDENT HAD BEEN REROUTED
FOR A TRIP TO CANADA WITH THE U.
S. EMBASSY AND
I WANT TO ASK YOU, YOU DON'T
HAVE ANY EVIDENCE THAT THE VICE
PRESIDENT WAS ENCOURAGED NOT TO
ATTEND FOR ANY OTHER REASON, TO
YOU?
>> I PERSONALLY DO NOT BUT I DO
DEFER TO MS. WILLIAMS.
>> AND MISS WILLIAM TESTIMONY,
SHE SAID SHE HEARD FROM THE
CHIEF OF STAFF ASSISTANCE THAT
THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS NOT ABLE
TO GO AND THE REASON FOR THAT
WAS RELATED TO ANY OF THESE
INVESTIGATIONS AND IT HASN'T
BEEN FULLY ESTABLISHED. I WANT
TO NOTE FROM THE MATERIALS YOU
PROVIDED THAT THERE WAS A
DISCUSSION WHETHER THE PRESIDENT
MAY HAVE INFLUENCE PRESIDENT
TRUMP DECISION ON THAT MAY 13
DAY
AND YOUR MEMBER WHEN THE MEETING
WAS?
>> I DO.
>> WHAT WAS THAT?
>> THAT WAS IN MAY.
>> DELIVER WHAT TIME OF DAY IT
WAS ON THE 13th?
>> TO BE HONEST, USUALLY THESE
MEETINGS ARE AROUND LUNCHTIME
AND SOMETIME IN THE TIMEFRAME TO
THE EARLY OR MID PART OF THE DAY
BUT I CAN'T SPEAK FOR SURE. I
WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT I CANNOT
SPEAK ABOUT THAT ENGAGEMENT.
>> JENNIFER WILLIAMS TESTIFIED
THAT  IT WAS AROUND 11:15 IN THE
MEETING
AFTER WAS A WRITER ON THE
AFTERNOON. THAT WOULD BE AROUND
1:45. WOULD THAT BE CONSISTENT
WITH YOUR TIMEFRAME?
>> ABOUT LUNCH TIME, YES.
>> GIVEN THE FOUR DAYS NOTICE
AND GIVEN SECRETARY PERRY'S
INVOLVEMENT, DO YOU THINK THE
DELEGATION
WAS A GOOD-SIZED GROUP?
>> I DO AND LET ME MAKE A POINT
THAT WE DON'T TRY TO MAKE THESE
DELEGATIONS LARGE. THIS IS ON
THE TAXPAYERS DIME AND IT IS
PRETTY EXPENSIVE GETTING PEOPLE
THERE AND WE TRY TO KEEP THEM
SMALL.
PERHAPS WE COULD HAVE MADE AN
ARRANGEMENT IF WE HAD A LONGER
LEAD TIME BUT FOUR DAYS IS NOT A
LOT OF TIME TO MAKE AN
ARRANGEMENT.
>> SECRETARY PERRY HAVE AN
INTEREST IN AND SOME OF THE
ENERGY RELATED ISSUES?
>> ACTUALLY RECOMMENDED
SECRETARY PERRY BE LEAD ALONG
WITH OTHERS.
>> WHAT CAN YOU TELL ABOUT HIS
INVOLVEMENT WITH THE UKRAINIAN
POLICY?
>> TERRY PERRY'S ENGAGEMENT
MADE PERFECT SENSE GIVEN HIS
ROLE IN HIS DEEP KNOWLEDGE OF
THE ENERGY INDUSTRY WITH HIS
FORMER GOVERNORSHIP
AND HE IS AN EXTRAORDINARILY
GOOD ADVOCATE FOR U. S. INTEREST
IN ONE OF UKRAINE'S ACHILLES'
HEEL IN ADDITION TO THE MILITARY
DISADVANTAGE WITH RUSSIA IS IN
FACT ENERGY. UKRAINE REMAINS FOR
NOW THE MAIN POINT FOR RUSSIAN
OIL AND GAS AND PIPELINES TO
EUROPE AND THIS HAS BEEN
MANIPULATED REPEATEDLY
ESPECIALLY SINCE 2006 BY THE
RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT AND MANY WILL
REMEMBER IN THE REAGAN ERA,
THERE WAS A HUGE DISPUTE BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES AND EUROPE
ABOUT WHETHER IT MAKES SENSE TO
BUILD PIPELINES FROM THE EVENTS
OF THE UNION AND TO BRING IT TO
THE EUROPEAN MARKET.
>> MR. HOLMES, WHAT WAS YOUR
VIEW OF THE DELEGATION? DO YOU
THINK IT WAS THE RIGHT SIZED
GROUP OR THE RIGHT LEVEL OF
PRESTIGE?
>> I THINK IT WAS FINE.
>> OKAY.
>> SINCE WE ARE ON THE TOPIC OF
UKRAINIAN ENERGY , THIS IS A
GOOD WAY FOR US TO SEGUE TO
BARIZMA WHICH I ASSUME MANY OF
YOU ARE FAMILIAR WITH AND HAVE
HEARD FOR MANY YEARS. YOU ARE ON
THE GROUND  NOW, MR. HOLMES AND
I KNOW YOU WERE THERE AT THE
TIME BUT IN 2015, THEN
AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE, JEFFREY
PIATT, OBAMA
APPOINTED CAREER AMBASSADOR AND
I'M SURE YOU KNOW HIM?
>> I DO.
>> CREDIBLE?
>> YES.
>> HE CALLED FOR AN
INVESTIGATION INTO THE OWNER OF
BARIZMA. ARE YOU FAMILIAR WITH
THAT?
>> YES.
>> DID YOU KNOW ABOUT THE DEPUTY
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE
WITH CONCERNS ABOUT THE
POTENTIAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST
WITH HUNTER BIDEN SITTING ON THE
BOARD?
>> I WOULD DEFER TO GEORGE KEN
WHO WAS INVOLVED .
>> DO YOU KNOW THAT THE GAS
COMPANY ROUTED MORE THAN $3
MILLION.
>> WERE YOU FAMILIAR WITH THAT,
DR. HILL?
>> ONLY PARTLY.
>> DID YOU KNOW THAT THIS WAS
THE REPRESENTATIVES JUST DAYS
AFTER
WITH THE FIRING OF THE COUNTRY'S
CHIEF PROSECUTOR.
>> KNOW.
>> DID YOU KNOW THAT
THE AMERICAN LAWYERS TRIED TO
SECURE A MEETING WITH THE NEW
STATE PROSECUTOR THE SAME DAY
THE PREDECESSOR FIRING WAS
ANNOUNCED?
>> NO.
>> DIGITAL JOE BIDEN CALLED
UKRAINIAN  PRESIDENT AT LEAST
THREE TIMES IN 2016 SHORTLY
AFTER THE PRESIDENT AND OWNER OF
BARIZMA'S HOME WAS RAIDED BY THE
STATE PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE?
>> NO.
>> DID YOU KNOW THAT DEVON
ARCHER AND HUNTER BIDEN REACHED
OUT TO THE DEPUTY SECRETARY OF
STATE SHORTLY AFTER  THE RAID ON
THE RECENT?
>> NO.
>> DR. HILL, DID YOU KNOW AND I
WANT TO GO THROUGH AND ASK ALL
THOSE QUESTIONS OVER AGAIN.
>> I ALSO DID NOT KNOW.
>> OKAY. SO, YOU OBVIOUSLY KNOW
THAT THE PRESIDENT  HAD CONCERNS
ABOUT BARIZMA AND ELECTION
MEDDLING BY THE UKRAINIANS  AND
WHEN YOU WERE IN THERE AS THE
HEAD OF THE UKRAINE
DESK, DID YOU EVER RAISE -- DID
YOU EVER BRIEF THE PRESIDENT OR
RAISE IT UP TO AMBASSADOR BOLTON
ABOUT ANY CONCERNS YOU 2017 AND
18 WITH THE ELECTION MEDDLING
OR CONCERNS?
>> THE WHOLE BRIEFING PROCESS
DID NOT REALLY WORK  IN A WAY
THAT YOU ARE SUGGESTING
SO IF THE PRESIDENT HAD ASKED
ABOUT ANY OF THIS INFORMATION,
IT WOULD'VE BEEN PROVIDED A JUST
TO BE CLEAR, UKRAINE WAS ON THE
TOP PRIORITY IN THIS PERIOD IN
THE SAME WAY THAT MANY OTHER
ISSUES THAT WE COULD TALK ABOUT
FROM TURKEY AND OTHERS AND THERE
WERE BRIEFINGS ON UKRAINE. THEY
WOULD TAKE PLACE WHEN IT WAS A
SCHEDULED MEETING
AND AS WE KNOW, THERE HAVE NOT
BEEN MANY OF THOSE.
>> JUST AS FAR AS YOU KNOW,
THERE WERE NO BRIEFINGS OR
PAPERS
AND ANSWER NO QUESTIONS AS IT
RELATES TO THE 2016 ELECTION OR
BARIZMA DURING YOUR TIME THERE?
>> I DID NOT, NO.
>> DR. HILL, YOU TOLD US THAT
INDEED, THERE ARE PERCEIVED
CONFLICT OF INTEREST TROUBLES
WHEN THE CHILD OF THE GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS IS INVOLVED WITH
SOMETHING WHERE THEY HAVE
OFFICIAL POLICY.
>> I THINK EMILY FAMILY MEMBER
WITH CONGRESS OR THE SENATE IS
OPEN TO ALL KINDS OF QUESTIONS
ABOUT UPTAKE'S IF THEY TAKE PART
IN ANY KIND OF ACTIVITY THAT
COULD BE MISCONSTRUED AS BEING
RELATED TO THE FAMILY MEMBERS
WORK SO I DO THINK THAT IS THE
CASE.
>> BACK TO AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
, YOU TESTIFIED THAT HE MADE A
HABIT OF BEING DROPPING HIS
INTERACTION WITH THE PRESIDENT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THERE WERE INSTANCES WHERE
YOU WOULD RUN INTO HIM AND HE
WOULD SAY I'M HERE TO SEE THE
PRESIDENT OR I HAVE BEEN IN TO
SEE THE PRESIDENT AND YOU HAD
INDICATION
TO CIRCLE BACK AND SAY THAT
WASN'T THE CASE?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> HE TESTIFIED ABOUT SOME SORT
OF COFFEE HE HAD WITH YOU ON
YOUR LAST DAY  AND I THINK WHEN
THE DEPOSITION TRANSCRIPT WAS
RELEASED, YOUR COUNSEL INDICATED
THAT IT WAS COMPLETELY
FABRICATED AND I WANT TO GIVE
YOU THE OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS
THAT.
>> WE DON'T HAVE COFFEE
MACHINES READILY IN OUR OFFICE
ON THE BEST I COULD'VE OFFERED
YOU WAS A CUP OF WATER. THE
COFFEE
THAT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND AND I
SHARED, WE WOULD RUN INTO EACH
OTHER AND HE FOUND OUT I WOULD
BE THERE AND ASKED ME TO MEET
HIM FOR COFFEE  IN JACKSONVILLE,
WYOMING IN 2018 IN AUGUST. THIS
IS A FULL YEAR BEFORE I LEFT.
THAT WAS A VERY NICE COFFEE SO
PERHAPS HE HAD THOSE TWO
MEETINGS TOGETHER BUT THE
MEANING HE WAS REFERRING TO WAS
WHEN HE CAME TO MEET WITH OUR
DIRECTOR FOR THE EUROPEAN UNION
AND THIS IS MY LAST WEEK IN THE
OFFICE AND AS I WAS IN THE
OFFICE FOR A BRIEF TIME BEFORE
GOING INTO ANOTHER MEETING, IT
WAS MY LAST WEEK IN THE OFFICE
AND WE AGREED TO SIT DOWN WITH
THE EUROPEAN UNION AND WITH THE
ASSISTANT
THAT THE AMBASSADOR HAD BROUGHT
WITH HIM FROM THE STATE
DEPARTMENT SO THERE WERE FOUR OF
US IN THAT MEETING AND
UNFORTUNATELY IT WASN'T OVER
COFFEE.
>> HE WENT ON TO INDICATE THAT
YOU WERE UPSET
.
>> THERE WERE FIVE OF US IN THE
MEETING, OBVIOUSLY I CAN'T DO
MATH, SORRY.
>> FAIR ENOUGH. HE INDICATED YOU
WERE UPSET  WITH BOLTON IN THE
WAY THINGS WERE GOING AND I
BELIEVE THE COUNCIL SAID THAT
WAS AN OUTRIGHT FABRICATION?
>> I THINK YOU MIGHT RECALL
THAT I SAID THERE WAS A BLOWUP
AND I HAD A COUPLE OF TESTY
ENCOUNTERS AND ONE OF THEM WAS
IN JUNE OF 2018
WHEN I SAID WHO PUT YOU IN
CHARGE AND I WILL ADMIT I WAS A
BIT RUDE AND THAT WHEN HE SAID
THE PRESIDENT WHICH SHUT ME UP
IN THE OTHER MEETING WHERE THERE
WAS 15 OR 20 MINUTES AS HE
DEPICTED IT WAS, I WAS TO BE
HONEST ANGRY WITH HIM AND I HATE
TO SAY IT BUT OFTEN WHEN WOMEN
SHOW ANGER, IT IS NOT FULLY
APPRECIATED BUT OFTEN PUSHED
ONTO EMOTIONAL ISSUES OR
DEFLECTED ONTO OTHER PEOPLE AND
WHAT I WAS ANGRY ABOUT WAS THAT
HE WAS NOT COORDINATING WITH US
AND I REALIZE HAVING LISTENING
TO THE DEPOSITION THAT HE WAS
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT AND WASN'T
COORDINATING WITH US BECAUSE WE
WERE DOING THE SAME THING THAT
HE WAS DOING SO I WAS UPSET WITH
HIM THAT HE WASN'T TELLING US
ABOUT THE MEETINGS HE WAS HAVING
AND HE SAID TO ME I BRIEFING THE
PRESIDENT. I'M BRIEFING THE
CHIEF OF STAFF AND SECRETARY
POMPEO SO WHO ELSE DO I HAVE TO
DO WITH? THE POINT IS WE HAVE A
ROBUST INTERAGENCY PROCESS THAT
DEALS WITH UKRAINE AND INCLUDES
MR. HOLMES AND AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
AND IT INCLUDES A WHOLE LOAD OF
OTHER PEOPLE AND IT STRUCK ME
WITH YOU
LOOK AT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND'S
EMAILS, HE SAID THESE ARE PEOPLE
THAT YOU NEED TO KNOW AND HE WAS
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT BECAUSE HE WAS
BEING INVOLVED IN A DOMESTIC
POLITICAL ERRAND  AND WE WERE
BEING INVOLVED IN NATIONAL
SECURITY ON FOREIGN POLICY IN
THOSE TWO THINGS HAD JUST A
VERGED SO HE WAS CORRECT AND I
HAD NOT PUT MY FINGER ON THAT AT
THE MOMENT BUT I WAS IRRITATED
WITH HIM AND ANGRY WITH HIM THAT
HE WASN'T FULLY COORDINATING AND
I SAY TO HIM THAT I THINK THIS
WILL ALL BLOW UP AND HERE WE ARE
AND AFTER I LEFT HIM MY NEXT
MEETING, I WENT TO THE EUROPEAN
UNION AND TALKS FOR A FULL HALF
HOUR TRYING TO ASK HIM ABOUT HOW
TO COORDINATE BETTER AFTER I
LEFT THE OFFICE AND HIS FEELING
WAS THAT THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL WAS TRYING TO BLOCK HIM.
WHAT WE WOULD TRY TO DO IS HAVE
THAT DOMESTIC OR PERSONAL
POLITICS AND THAT WAS PRECISELY
WHAT I WAS TRYING TO DO.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND WAS NOT
WRONG THAT HE HAD BEEN  GIVEN A
DIFFERENT
AND IT WAS AT THAT MOMENT THAT I
STARTED TO REALIZE HOW THOSE
THINGS HAD A VERGED AND I
REALIZED THAT I WASN'T BEING IN
FAIR TO AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
BECAUSE HE WAS  CARRYING OUT
WHAT HE THOUGHT AND WE WERE
DOING SOMETHING THAT WE THOUGHT
WAS PERHAPS EVEN MORE IMPORTANT
BUT NOT IN THE SAME CHANNEL.
>> I WANT TO DRILL DOWN ON THIS
A LITTLE BIT.  THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES,
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF WAS CONCERNED
ABOUT THE 2016 ELECTIONS IN
BARIZMA? HE HAD HIS PERSONAL
ATTORNEY  WORKING THESE ISSUES
BECAUSE HE WAS UNDER
INVESTIGATION BY ROBERT MUELLER
SPECIAL COUNSEL BEGINNING WITH
THE INVESTIGATION THAT STARTED
WITH THE
STILL DOSSIER AND HAD BEEN INTO
THE FBI.
AT THE END OF THE DAY, THE
COMMANDER IN CHIEF
, TESTIFIED THAT YOU WEREN'T
AWARE THAT BUT IF THAT WAS THE
CONCERN OF THE PRESIDENT TO GET
TO THE BOTTOM OF THE
AND THAT WAS THE CONCERN TO SET
UP MEETINGS TO ENSURE
THAT MEETINGS OCCURRED
, I UNDERSTAND PEOPLE AT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT HAD ISSUES WITH
THAT BUT IS THAT THE COMMANDER
IN CHIEF THAT MAKES IT DECISION?
>> MY POINT IS THAT WE WERE NOT
TOLD THAT WE WERE TO BE FOCUSED
ON THESE ISSUES AS A MATTER OF
POLICY TOWARDS UKRAINE. WHEN
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT UKRAINE, I
HEARD
THE PRESIDENT NEVER SAY ANYTHING
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT 2016 AND
UKRAINE. I HAVE HEARD HIM SEE
AND SAY SOMETHING PUBLICLY BUT I
WAS NOT GIVEN DIRECTIVE.
I WAS TO STAY OUT OF DOMESTIC
POLITICS.
>> JUST FOR SAKE OF THE
TIMELINE,  I THINK AS OF JULY 19
, THEY HAD NOT EVEN ENGAGED WITH
RUDY GIULIANI AN ANOMALY THAT
HAPPENED UNTIL LATER. YOU
BELIEVE THAT THEY WERE ALREADY
ENGAGED IN THOSE ACTIVITIES?
>> WE ALREADY HAD A DISCUSSION
WHICH WAS WITH THE ASSISTANT,
CHRIS ANDERSON THAT INDICATED
THAT HE HAD MET WITH RUDY
GIULIANI AT THIS POINT AND THERE
WAS A COMMENT ABOUT MEETING WITH
GIULIANI AND AS WE KNOW, THEY
HAD BEEN INSTRUCTED
THAT THEY GAVE EVERY IMPRESSION
THAT THEY WERE MEETING AT THIS
POINT AND HE WAS ALSO SAYING
THAT HE WAS CHORDING WITH THE
STATE DEPARTMENT. IT WAS MY
BELIEF THAT THEY WERE MEETING
WITH HIM.
>> THERE IS SOME AMBIGUITY
IN THE DIRECTION AND INVESTED
HER VOLKER SAID THEY DISMISSED
UKRAINE AND IF YOU WANT TO TALK
ABOUT IT, JUST GO TALK TO RUDY
AND HE TOOK THAT A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENTLY. I BELIEVE THAT
AMBASSADOR VOLKER WAS PRIMARILY
WITH MR. GIULIANI AND THAT WAS
HAPPENING
AND DIDN'T START UNTIL THE END
OF JULY.
>> I ONLY LEARNED THAT
SUBSEQUENTLY SO I WANT TO TELL
YOU IN THAT PARTICULAR TIMEFRAME
THAT I WAS NOT AWARE OF THAT AND
IN FACT, GORDON SONDLAND AND
THEY HAD WARNED THE INVESTORS
NOT TO MEET WITH RUDY GIULIANI
IN A MEETING.
>> MR. MORRISON TOLD US THAT
YOU HAD
RELAYED CONCERNS ABOUT THE
JUDGMENT.
>> I DID NOT RELAY IT TO ANY
CONCERNS  ABOUT THE JUDGMENT SO
I WAS SURPRISED WHEN I HEARD MR.
MORRISON MAKE THAT WHEN I READ
HIS DEPOSITION. IT WAS A VERY
SPECIFIC POINT THAT WAS MADE IN
THESE ARE PERSONAL ISSUES AND
I'M SURE NO ONE
HERE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THEIR
PRIVATE PERSONAL ISSUES PUT
BEFORE A COMMITTEE BUT YOU HAVE
ASKED ME ABOUT THIS SO I HAD A
COUPLE OF VERY SHORT TRANSITION
MEETINGS AND MR. MORRISON WAS
TAKING OVER THE POSITION WHICH
HE HELD FOR THREE MONTHS AND I
HAVE WORKED AS A SENIOR DIRECTOR
FOR EUROPE FOR MORE THAN TWO
YEARS AT THIS POINT AND I HAVE
BEEN WORKING FOR A YEAR WITH
COLONEL DENMAN AND IN THAT JUNE
TIMEFRAME, I SAT DOWN WITH THE
DEPUTY
THAT WAS ALSO WORKING AND WE
WENT TO THE ORGANIZATIONAL
CHARGE WITH HE WAS STAYING AND
HE WAS ROTATING AND WE TALKED
ABOUT EVERYONE WITH THEIR
STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES. I
ALWAYS ASKED ABOUT WHAT I WASN'T
DOING AND I SAID THAT I WAS
CONCERNED ABOUT THE WAY THINGS
WERE TRENDING IN THE UKRAINE
POLICY.
COLONEL DENMAN IS A HIGHLY
DECORATED OFFICER AND CAME OVER
TO US FROM THE CHAIRMAN'S OFFICE
WITH THE CHIEF OF STAFF AND WE
WERE LOOKING AT HIM IN THE
CONTEXT OF WHAT HIS FUTURE
POSITIONS WOULD BE IN THE
CONTEXT OF THE U.S. ARMY AND I
WAS CONCERNED THAT IF FOR
EXAMPLE, HE MIGHT DECIDE TO
LEAVE THE MILITARY THAT PERHAPS
HE WASN'T AS WELL SUITED FOR
SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE MUCH
MORE POLITICAL. I DID NOT FEEL
HE HAD THE POLITICAL ANTENNA TO
DEAL WITH SOMETHING WITH
DOMESTIC POLITICS. NOT EVERYONE
IS SUITED FOR THAT. THAT DOES
NOT MEAN IN ANY WAY THAT I WAS
QUESTIONING THE OVERALL JUDGMENT
NOR ANY WAY HIS EXPERTISE. HE IS
EXCELLENT ON ISSUES RELATED TO
UKRAINE AND MEDULLA AND HAVE
BEEN CHARGED OF THE RUSSIAN
CAMPAIGN THINKING THROUGH
AT THE CHAIRMAN'S OFFICE IN THE
PENTAGON AND THIS IS A VERY
SPECIFIC ISSUE BECAUSE BY JUNE,
WE SAW THAT THINGS WERE
DIVERTING AND IT WAS COMPLETELY
DIFFERENT. SOME PEOPLE IN MY
OFFICE HAD WORKED AT THE HIGHEST
LEVEL AND MR. MORRISON HAD COME
FROM CAPITOL HILL. HE KNEW
POLITICS INSIDE OUT AND COLONEL
DENMAN DID NOT. WE WERE
CONCERNED ABOUT HOW HE WOULD
MANAGE THE HIGHLY DEMANDING
CHARGE WHICH HAD NOT BEEN
BEFORE.
>> YOU RELATED THAT DURING THE
DEPOSITION THAT COLONEL
VENNEMAN
WAS CUT OUT. WAS IT SOMETHING
THAT YOU RECOMMENDED?
>> NOT WITH THE EMBASSY BUT
WE WERE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
POLITICAL ASPECTS AND WE DID NOT
FEEL WHEN JULY 10, COLONEL
VINDMAN,
IT WAS HIGHLY POLITICAL.
>> MR. HOLMES, AT THE END OF
AUGUST, WE REALIZE THAT
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR WAS ENGAGED
IN OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR THE
PRESIDENT ABOUT EUROPEAN ALLIES
IN THE REGION AS THE DECISION
ABOUT AID WAS BEING DEBATED.
>> AFTER THE HOLD WAS PLACED ,
MANY PEOPLE WERE TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND WHY
AND I BELIEVE IT WAS SENATOR
JOHNSON THAT SAID THE PRESIDENT
WAS CONCERNED ABOUT THAT AS WELL
SO TRYING TO INTERPRET WHY THIS
MIGHT HAPPEN AND WE WERE LOOKING
INTO THE FACTS
OF WHAT THE EUROPEANS HAD
PROVIDED IN WHAT WE HAD PROVIDED
AND IT WAS VERY ILLUMINATING
WHAT WE LEARNED. UNITED STATES
HAD PROVIDED COMBINED CIVILIAN
AND MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO
UKRAINE TO 2014 OF ABOUT $3
BILLION PLUS TWO $1 BILLION LOAN
GUARANTEES
AND THAT WOULD GET PAYBACK
LARGELY. JUST OVER $3 BILLION IN
EUROPEANS AT THE LEVEL OF THE
UNION AND THE STATES COMBINED
SINCE 2014, MY UNDERSTANDING
THAT IT HAVE BEEN A COMBINED $12
MILLION.
>> YOU WERE ABLE TO COMMUNICATE
THAT BACK  AT THE END OF AUGUST?
>> I BELIEVE SO.
>> DO YOU THINK THAT WAS THE
INFORMATION THE WHITE HOUSE WAS
LOOKING FOR?
>> WE DON'T KNOW. IF THE CONCERN
WAS THAT  OTHERS WEREN'T
SPENDING AS MUCH AS WE WERE
,  THAT INFORMATION SHOWED A
DIFFERENT STORY.
>> THE AIDE WAS SUBSEQUENTLY
LIFTED SHORTLY THEREAFTER?
>>
YES, IN MID-SEPTEMBER.
>> THAT CONCLUDES THE 45 MINUTE
ROUNDS AND WE WILL NOW RECOGNIZE
MYSELF FOR
A FEW MINUTES.
WE WANT TO BE CAUTIOUS WITH OUR
YOU WEAR THIS FACTOR THAT FACT.
IF YOU HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE,
THAT IS FINE AND I'M NOT SAYING
THIS IS DELIBERATE BUT SOMETIMES
WE GET IT WRONG SO LET ME JUST
CLEAR THE RECORD ON ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT WAS SUGGESTED TO YOU
THAT THE VICE PRESIDENT CANCELED
HIS TRIP BECAUSE OF A CONFLICT
OF THE TRIP TO CANADA
, THAT WAS NOT IN THE TESTIMONY
BUT IT HAS BEEN WAS I ASKED MY
COLLEAGUE WHITE WE SHOULD STOP
TRIP PLANNING AND WHY THE VICE
PRESIDENT WOULD NOT BE ATTENDING
AND I WAS INFORMED THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAD DECIDED THAT HE
WOULD NOT ATTEND. SO, JUST OFF
OF THAT CAUTION, DR. HILL, I
WANT TO ASK YOU AND YOU MAY BE
AWARE OF SOME OF THE ATTACKS ON
COLONEL VINDMAN SUGGESTING THAT
HE HAS A DUAL LT AND NOT REALLY
LOYAL  TO AMERICA
BUT I WANTED TO ASK WHAT YOU
THINK OF THOSE ACCUSATIONS?
>> I THINK IT IS VERY
UNFORTUNATE AND THIS IS A
COUNTRY OF IMMIGRANTS
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF VERY FEW
PEOPLE STILL HERE AND YVONNE
IMMIGRATED TO THE UNITED STATES
AT SOME POINT IN THEIR FAMILY
HISTORY. THIS IS WHAT TIMMY
REALLY DOES MAKE AMERICA GREAT
AND I'M SURE EVERY PERSON HERE,
SOME CAME RELUCTANTLY AND OTHERS
CAME BY CHOICES I DID BUT FOR ME
THIS IS THE ESSENCE OF WHY
WANTED TO BE HERE AND I THINK IT
IS UNFAIR, EVERYONE HAS
SOMETHING AND I DO NOT BELIEVE
THAT MY LOYALTY IS TO THE UNITED
KINGDOM. MY LOYALTY IS TO THE
UNITED STATES. THIS IS MY
COUNTRY IN THE COUNTRY THAT I
SERVE AND I KNOW FOR FACT WITH
EVERY SINGLE ONE OF MY
COLLEAGUES IN MY OFFICE AND
ACROSS THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL, THEY FEEL EXACTLY THE
SAME WAY AND I FEEL IT IS DEEPLY
UNFAIR.
>> THANK YOU. YOU MENTIONED
SOMETHING IN YOUR TESTIMONY  AND
I THINK AT ONE POINT
THEY TOLD YOU THE ROLE WAS TO
MAKE DEALS, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT ONE
OF THOSE DEALS. THE ONE THAT WAS
DESCRIBED AS A DRUG DEAL. I HAVE
THE INDICATION
WITH THE JULY 10 MEETING AND
THERE WERE TWO MEETINGS WITH
THE WAR ROOM AND THERE WAS MORE
THAT YOU HAD TO SAY ABOUT THAT.
DO YOU WANT TO WALK US THROUGH
THAT IN MORE DETAIL?
>> THE REFERENCE WITH AFTER I
RETURNED FROM THE BOARD ROOM AND
RELAYED WHAT I HAD HEARD. THE
SEQUENCING OF MEETINGS WHICH I
KNOW THERE HAS BEEN SOME CONCERN
ABOUT THE DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN
VARIOUS DEPOSITIONS SO WHAT
HAPPENED IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE
MEETING THAT AMBASSADOR BOLTON
CALLED SHORT WAS I HE TOLD ME TO
HOLD BACK IN THE ROOM AND HE WAS
ESCORTING OUT THE UKRAINIAN
VISITORS ALONG WITH SECRETARY
PERRY
AND I GUESS THEY WANTED TO TAKE
A QUICK PHOTOGRAPH OUTSIDE OF
HIS OFFICE AND I KNOW THAT
SECRETARY PERRY AND OTHERS HAD
TWEETED OUT A PHOTOGRAPH AND IT
WAS A PICTURE OF ALL OF THEM
STANDING JUST OUTSIDE OF
AMBASSADOR BOLTON'S OFFICE.
QUICKLY HE CAME BACK IT UP AND
AT THAT POINT I GUESS THEY WERE
ALREADY MOVING DOWN BECAUSE ON
THE WAY OUT, AMBASSADOR SUMLIN
HAD SAID LET'S REGROUP IN THE
BOARD ROOM
FOR A QUICK HUDDLE OF NEXT STEPS
WHICH IS QUITE UNUSUAL TO BE
HONEST. WE DON'T USUALLY HUDDLE
IN A ROOM IN THE WHITE HOUSE TO
DISCUSS NEXT STEPS WITH FOREIGN
DELEGATIONS AND WE TOOK IT TO BE
NEXT STEPS ON SETTING UP THE
MEETING WHICH
AMBASSADOR BOLTON WAS NOT
PREPARED TO DO AND WHEN HE CAME
BACK INTO THE OFFICE, THAT WAS
WHEN HE GAVE ME THE INSTRUCTION
TO FIND OUT WHAT WAS BEING
DISCUSSED. AS I CAME INTO THE
BOARDROOM
INVESTOR SONDLAND WAS AN
EXCHANGE  AND THAT WAS WHEN I
NOTICED THAT HE LOOKED QUITE
ALARMED. I KNOW VASSAR SONDLAND
WAS OUT AND I WATCHED ALL THE
TESTIMONY AND THERE WERE SOME
QUESTIONS ABOUT YELLING AND
SHOUTING. I CERTAINLY NEVER SAID
THAT AND THERE WAS NO YELLING
AND SHOUTING. THAT'S HOW PEOPLE
LIKE TO RETELL THE STORIES. WHEN
I CAME IN, AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
WAS IN AN EXCHANGE  WITH COLONEL
VINDMAN ALONG THE LINES OF  WE
HAVE AN AGREEMENT TO HAVE THIS
MEETING AND I CAME IN AND I
ASKED WHAT IS GOING ON AND HE
SAID AND THIS IS THE UKRAINIANS
BUT AT THIS POINT I WANT TO
STRESS THAT SECRETARY PERRY HAD
LEFT.
THE COLLEAGUES WERE LEAVING SO
SECRETARY PERRY HAS NO
RECOLLECTION OF THIS MEETING
BECAUSE HE WAS NOT IN IT SO WHEN
I CAME IN, GORDON SONDLAND WAS
SAYING WE HAVE A DEAL HERE  THAT
THEY WILL BE MEETING AND I HAVE
A DEAL WITH THE CHIEF OF STAFF
AND THEY WILL BE A MEETING IF
THEY ANNOUNCE THESE
INVESTIGATIONS INTO 2016 AND
BARIZMA AND I  CUT IT OFF
BECAUSE HAVING HEARD MR.
GIULIANI OVER AND OVER AGAIN
WITH ALL OF THE ISSUES THAT HE
WAS ASSERTING, BY THIS POINT, IT
WAS CLEAR THAT BARIZMA WAS CODE
FOR THE BIDENS BECAUSE  RUDY
GIULIANI WAS LEAVING IT OUT
THERE AND I CAN UNDERSTAND WHY
HE WAS ALARMED. HE SAID WE
CANNOT BE INVOLVED IN THIS AND
I'VE LEARNED SINCE FROM MR.
HOLMES WITH HIS RENDITION TODAY
THAT TRINITY HAD ALREADY WARNED
THE UKRAINIANS AND PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY TO STAY OUT OF AMERICAN
POLITICS . SO, I CUT THIS OFF
AND I SAID
WE NEED PROCEDURES AND HE MADE
IT CLEAR WE CAN'T SET UP THE
MEETING RIGHT NOW AND WE HAVE TO
PREPARE THIS THROUGH THE PROPER
PROCESS AND I KNOW THIS SOUNDS
BORING BUT WE HAVE NATIONAL
SECURITY PROCEDURES AND I SAID
WE SHOULDN'T BE TALKING ABOUT
THIS IN FRONT OF OUR COLLEAGUES
FROM UKRAINE. THIS IS COMPLETELY
INAPPROPRIATE AND HE AGREED AND
WE ASKED TO MOVE OUTSIDE THE
BOARD ROOM AND I EXPLAINED
THIS WHICH IS ALSO EXTREMELY
AWKWARD BECAUSE THEY SHOULD NOT
HAVE BEEN STANDING AROUND IN THE
WEST WING AT THIS PARTICULAR
JUNCTION AND THAT IS WHEN I
PUSHED BACK FROM AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND AND SAID  I KNOW THE
DIFFERENCES AND WE ARE TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT
WITH THE PARLIAMENTARY ACTIONS
AND AT THAT POINT I THINK IT HAD
BEEN SET FOR JULY 21.
AMBASSADOR BOLTON WOULD LIKE TO
WAIT UNTIL AFTER THAT TO
BASICALLY SEE WHETHER THEY GET
THE MAJORITY WHICH WOULD ENABLE
TO HIM TO MOVE FORWARD.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SAID FAIR
ENOUGH  AND HE REALIZED HE WOULD
NOT BE ABLE TO PUSH THIS FURTHER
AND HE DIDN'T SAME THING AT THIS
PARTICULAR JUNCTURE AND THEN HE
SAID HE HAD ANOTHER MEETING AND
THEY ALL LEFT. I WENT BACK UP
AND RELAYED THIS TO AMBASSADOR
BOLTON WHICH IS WHEN HE GAVE ME
SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS THAT WE
HAVE BEEN THROUGH TO TALK TO
JOHN EISENBERG IN THE COUNCILS
OFFICE.
>>
AS SOON AS I
DON'T CUT OFF,
YOU MAY PROCEED.
>> WHY DIDN'T YOUR BOSS TALK
ABOUT IT, MR. HOLMES?
>> WHAT WAS THAT QUESTION SEVEN
WHY DID YOUR BOSS BRING UP THE
CALL THAT YOU OVERHEARD AND THE
REASON YOU ARE HERE TODAY?  YOU
ARE THE CLOSING WITNESS YET THE
STAR WITNESS IN THE FIRST
WITNESS DIDN'T EVEN BRING IT UP.
WHEN WE DEPOSE YOU, YOU SAID
THIS WAS A DISTINCTIVE
EXPERIENCE AMONG THE MOST
REMARKABLE EVENTS. USE IT AFTER
THE CALL HAPPENED, I MERELY TOLD
THE DEPUTY CHIEF ABOUT THE CALL.
THEN YOU STUDY WENT ON VACATION
AND TOLD SEVERAL FRIENDS AND
FAMILY ABOUT THE CALL AND THEN
YOU COME BACK AND YOU TELL
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR ABOUT THE
CALL. THEN IN YOUR DEPOSITION
STATEMENT, YOU SAY ARE PURELY
FOR TO THE CALL IN MEETINGS AND
CONVERSATIONS WHERE THIS WAS
RELEVANT. I REPEATEDLY REFERRED
TO THE CALL IN MEETINGS AND
CONVERSATIONS WHERE THE INTEREST
WAS RELEVANT. THAT SOUNDS LIKE
GOVERNMENT
AND YOU TOLD EVERYBODY AT THE
STAR WITNESS IN THE FIRST
WITNESS
, WHEN HE CAME HERE, HE RELATED
13 CONVERSATIONS HE HAD BETWEEN
JULY 18 WAS SEPTEMBER 11 WHEN IT
WAS RELEASED IN 13 DIFFERENT
CONVERSATIONS AND NEVER ONCE
MENTIONING THIS CALL. JULY 19,
HE SAID WHAT THEY TOLD THEM AND
SONDLAND TOLD ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY CALL . JULY
20 TELLING TAYLOR WHAT
THEY TOLD PRESIDENT ZELENSKY.
AUGUST 16, VOLKER TELLS  TAYLOR.
AUGUST 21,
MORRISON TALKS TO TAYLOR. AUGUST
WHEN I, TOO TALK TO TAYLOR.
SEPTEMBER 2, HE TELLS THEM WHAT
HE TOLD MORRISON AND MORRISON
TELLS TAYLOR WHAT SONDLAND TOLD
TRUMP  IN SEPTEMBER 8, SONDLAND
TOLD TAYLOR WHAT TRUMP TOLD
SONDLAND. NOWHERE  IS THERE A
HOLMES TELLS TAYLOR WHAT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
TOLD SONDLAND.  I WILL GIVE YOU
A CHANCE IN A SECOND.
13 CONVERSATIONS FROM THE STAR
WITNESS AND YOU ARE THE CLOSING
WITNESS AND HE CAN'T REMEMBER A
CALL FROM A GUY HE WORKS WITH
EVERY SINGLE DAY. WHY?
>> IMMEDIATELY
, AFTER THIS LUNCH ON THE 26th,
I TOLD MY DIRECT SUPERVISOR AND
THE DEPUTY CHIEF ADMISSION THAT
I WOULD'VE TOLD AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR IMMEDIATELY BUT HE WAS ON
THE FRONT LINES THAT AFTERNOON
AND THEN I WILL ONE ON AS A
TESTIFIED AND CAME BACK THE
FOLLOWING MONDAY AND ON TUESDAY
I WAS BACK IN THE MASTER'S
OFFICE WHERE I REFERRED TO THE
CALL IN THAT
WEEK AND IT WAS MY ASSUMPTION
THAT THE DEPUTY CHIEF WOULD HAVE
INFORMED OTHER PEOPLE ABOUT THE
CALL AS WELL SO MY RECOLLECTION
IS WHEN I DID REFER TO THAT CALL
THAT AMBASSADOR TAYLOR NODDED
AS IF HE HAD BEEN BRIEFED ON IT
SO I REFERRED TO THE CALL AND
MENTIONED SOME OF MY TAKEAWAYS
IN THE MAIN TAKE AWAY WAS THE
PRESIDENT DOESN'T CARE ABOUT
UKRAINE SO WE WILL HAVE A TOUGH
ROAD AHEAD TO CONVINCE HIM THAT
IT IS IMPORTANT ENOUGH TO
SCHEDULE AN OFFICE MEETING AND
ULTIMATELY TO RELEASE HIS HOLD
ON SECURITY SYSTEMS. THAT WAS
THE TAKE AWAY AND THAT IS WHAT I
REFERRED TO REPEATEDLY WHENEVER
IT BECAME RELEVANT AND I WILL
REMIND YOU
ONE MORE IMPORTANT THING.
THROUGHOUT THIS TIME AS A
TESTIFIED, WE ARE TRYING TO FIND
A FORMULA AND THINGS WE COULD DO
WITH UKRAINIANS THAT WOULD
CONVINCE THE PRESIDENT THAT THEY
WERE WORTH TALKING TO.
>> MAYBE MR. HOLMES THE TAKE
AWAY THAT HE THOUGHT IT WAS NO
BIG DEAL BECAUSE HE ALREADY
KNEW. HE DIDN'T REMEMBER BECAUSE
WE ALREADY HAVE THE TRANSCRIPT.
WE HAD THE TRUMP
ZELENSKY TRANSCRIPT I HAVE BEEN
OUT FOR TWO MONTHS EVEN THOUGH
EUROPE REALLY BRING THIS
CONVERSATION UP AS HE SAID TO
EVERYONE  WHEN THERE IS ANY TIME
A TALK ABOUT UKRAINE, MAYBE IT
WAS THE TRANSCRIPT OF THE CALL
HAPPENED ON JULY 25 AND IT HAS
BEEN OUT FOR TWO MONTHS AND
MAYBE THE AMBASSADOR THOUGHT
THIS WAS NOTHING NEW HERE. LAST
WEEK, YOU COME FORWARD
WITH NEW INFORMATION AND THERE
IS NOTHING DIFFERENT THAN WHAT
WE HAD IN THE TRANSCRIPT. MAYBE
THAT IS THE REASON THE STAR
WITNESS IN THE FIRST WITNESS
DIDN'T BRING IT UP BUT THEY HAD
TO HAVE SOMETHING SO YOU ARE THE
CLOSING WITNESS BECAUSE YOU
OVERHEARD THE PRESIDENT
TALKING TO AMBASSADOR SONDLAND.
>> I SEE FOUR SECONDS LEFT ON
THE CLOCK.  I BELIEVE --
>> YOU MAY TAKE AS LONG AS YOU
NEED.
>> I BELIEVE AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
DID  KNOW WHEN HE RETURNED AND
IT WAS NOT NEWS TO HIM
THAT THE PRESIDENT WAS PRESSING
FOR A BIDEN INVESTIGATION.
>> THAT'S NOT WHAT I ASKED. I
ASKED WHY HE DIDN'T SHARE WITH
US.
>> PLEASE DO NOT INTERRUPT THE
WITNESS ANY FURTHER.  YOUR TIME
IS EXPIRED BUT HIS IS NOT. YOU
MAY ANSWER THE QUESTION.
>> THAT IS EXACTLY MY POINT.
WHEN WE COME BACK, I REFERRED TO
THE CALL AND EVERYONE WAS
NODDING. OF COURSE THAT IS WHAT
IS GOING ON AND OF COURSE THE
PRESIDENT IS PRESSING FOR A
BIDEN INVESTIGATION. THERE WAS
NODDING AGREEMENT. DID I GO
THROUGH EVERY SINGLE WORD IN THE
CALL? NO BECAUSE EVERYONE AT
THAT POINT AGREED AND IT WAS
OBVIOUS WHAT THE PRESIDENT WAS
PRESSING FOR AND AS YOU JUST
ALLEN, AMBASSADOR TAYLOR HAD ALL
THOSE OTHER INTERACTIONS --
>> HE DIDN'T SHARE WITH US.
>> PLEASE DO NOT INTERRUPT.
>> MY VIVID RECOLLECTION WAS A
TOUCHSTONE EXPERIENCE THAT TO ME
VALIDATED WHAT WE BELIEVED.
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR WAS ON THE
CALL.
>> ALL OF A SUDDEN LAST WEEK --
>> MR. JORDAN, ALLOW THE
WITNESS TO ANSWER THE QUESTION.
>> I WILL FINISH WITH THIS. HE
WAS INVOLVED IN A NUMBER OF
DIFFERENT INTERACTIONS AS YOU
OUTLINED  THAT BROUGHT TO THE
SAME CONCLUSION.
>> MR. JORDAN, MR. JORDAN, YOU
MAY NOT LIKE  THE WITNESSES
ANSWER BUT WE WILL HEAR THE
WITNESSES ANSWER. HAVE YOU
CONCLUDED
,  MR. HOLMES?
>> I HAVE.
>> MR. HINES.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TESTIMONY.
DR. HILL,  HE MADE A FAIRLY
DEMONIC COMMENT WHICH THE
WRECKING MEMBER TOOK SOME
EXCEPTION. I'M MORE INTERESTED
IN THE UKRAINE PIECE OF THIS BUT
YOU SAID SOME OF YOU ON THIS
COMMITTEE APPEARED TO BELIEVE
THAT RUSSIA AND THE SECURITY
SERVICE TO NOT CONDUCT A
CAMPAIGN AGAINST OUR COUNTRY AND
PERHAPS SOMEHOW FOR SOME REASON
UKRAINE DID. I AM MUCH MORE
INTERESTED IN THE UKRAINIAN
PIECE OF THIS BUT I DO WANT TO
SAY BRIEFLY, I DON'T KNOW WHAT
MY COLLEAGUES BELIEVE BUT I DO
HAVE A PRETTY GOOD SENSE OF WHAT
THE EFFECTS ARE OF CREATING
AMBIGUITY AND LACKING CLARITY
AND CONVICTION
AROUND THE RUSSIAN ATTACK ON THE
ELECTION OF 2016 AND IN RESPONSE
TO YOUR COMMENT, THE RANKING
MEMBER OFFERED UP A REPORT WHICH
VARIES IN MATERIAL RESPECTS FROM
THE REPORT THAT IS ARE RICK
CREATED FROM THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE. A DAY DOES NOT GO BY
IN WHICH RANKING MEMBER NUNEZ
DOES NOT SPEAK OF THE RUSSIAN
HOAX AND THIS IS AN AREA IN
WHICH CONTEXT IS PRETTY
IMPORTANT. LET ME READ YOU A
COMMENT BY ANOTHER SENIOR
OFFICIAL. WHY DID THE NATIONAL
COMMITTEE TURNED DOWN THE DHS
OFFER TO PROTECT AGAINST HACKS?
IT IS ALL A BIG HOAX
. WHY DID THE DNC REFUSED TO
TURN OVER ITS SERVER TO THE FBI?
IT IS ALL A BIG
SCAM. DO YOU KNOW WHO SAID THOSE
THINGS, DR. HILL?
>> I DON'T.
>> THAT IS THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.  MY POINT IS AND
TELL ME IF YOU AGREE OR DISAGREE
, AMBIGUITY AND A FAILURE TO
NAME AND SHAME THE RUSSIANS
FOR THE ATTACK, THAT IS NOT THE
SERVICE OF OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY, IS IT?
>> IS NOT.
>> LET'S TURN TO UKRAINE. DR.
HILL, YOU CHARACTERIZE THE IDEA
THAT UKRAINE
INTERFERED AS A FICTIONAL
NARRATIVE. HAVE YOU SEEN ANY
EVIDENCE AT ALL THAT UKRAINE
INTERFERED IN THE 2016 ELECTION?
>> WELL, I HAVE BROUGHT WITH ME
TWO EXHIBITS I WAS POINTED TO
DURING THE DEPOSITION I GAVE ON
OCTOBER 14 AND I'M QUITE
DREADFUL THAT THEY POINTED ME IN
THIS DIRECTION. I WAS PRESENTED
DURING MY DEPOSITION WITH TWO
ARTICLES WERE TWO PIECES OF
INFORMATION AND ONE WAS THAT THE
UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR CHARLIE
WROTE IN 2016
AND THIS IS DURING THE
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN WHEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS THE NOMINEE
FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND
THIS IS AMBASSADOR CHARLIE THAT
WAS THE UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR
BEING CRITICAL
OF PRESIDENT TRUMP WHO WAS IN
THE NOMINEE FOR THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY FOR MAKING COMMENTS ABOUT
UKRAINE AND RUSSIA.
>> MAY I INTERRUPT YOU THERE?
LET ME BE VERY SPECIFIC ABOUT
WHAT THOSE COMMENTS WERE.  THEY
SAID FROM WHAT I HAVE HEARD,
THEY WOULD RATHER BE WITH RUSSIA
THEM WHERE THEY WERE SO
AMBASSADOR CHARLIE IS RESPONDING
TO THAT IN THE ARTICLE, CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT AND THE
WHOLE ARTICLE IS ABOUT UKRAINE
AND THIS IS STANDARD FOR ANYONE
AND YOU CAN PICK SOMETHING THAT
SOMEONE ELSE WOULD SAY.
AMBASSADOR TROY TALKS ABOUT
UKRAINE'S POSITION.
>> LET ME JUST READ BECAUSE IT
IS WORTH PEOPLE HEARING  WHAT
THE SEVERE ATTACK ON CANDIDATE
TRUMP WHO IS SUGGESTED,
AMBASSADOR CHARLIE WRITES
EVEN IF THE COMMENTS ARE ONLY
SPECULATIVE AND DO NOT REFLECT A
FUTURE FOREIGN POLICY, THEY CALL
FOR APPEASEMENT OF AN AGGRESSOR
AND SUPPORT THE VIOLATION OF A
SOVEREIGN COUNTRY WITH
TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY AND
INTERNATIONAL LAW. THAT IS THE
ATTACK ON CANDIDATE TRUMP. DOES
THAT SOUND LIKE ELECTION
INTERFERENCE
TO YOU?
>> YOU NEVER KNOW WHO WILL WIN
AND I THINK THE SECOND PIECE
THAT WAS PRESENTED TO ME, I WANT
TO THANK YOU FOR GOING BACK AND
READING IT AGAIN AND I DID
REMEMBER THE PEACE AND AS YOU
POINT OUT AN EXTREMELY GOOD
JOURNALIST BUT I REMEMBERED
READING THIS BACK IN THE DAY BUT
I HAVE BEEN A LONG TIME AND YOU
GAVE ME A COPY AND I WENT BACK
AND READ IT AGAIN BECAUSE I
THINK IT IS IMPORTANT AND GETS
TO THIS ISSUE HERE. MR. VOGEL
POINTS OUT THAT THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT AND THEY WOULD NOT
HAVE DONE VERY WELL
.
THEY ARE BACK ON HILLARY CLINTON
WINNING THE ELECTION. THEY HAVE
EQUIPMENT CAMPAIGN AND
WE HAVE SOME UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS
IN A NUMBER OF OTHER PEOPLE THAT
HAVE BEEN NAMED AND TALKS ABOUT
HOW THEY WERE TRYING TO COLLECT
INFORMATION WITH THE RANKING
MEMBER
AND OTHER PEOPLE AS WELL.
HOWEVER, I DO WANT TO POINT OUT
THAT THE ARTICLE HERE, THERE WAS
LITTLE EVIDENCE OF A TOP-DOWN
EFFORT BY UKRAINE AND THAT MAKES
A DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE
RUSSIAN EFFORT THAT WAS BY
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT PUTIN AND HAS
MILITARY SERVICES. I DON'T THINK
THOSE THINGS ARE EXACTLY THE
SAME AND I ALSO MENTIONED IN MY
DEPOSITION OF OCTOBER 14 THAT IN
FACT MANY OFFICIALS FROM MANY
COUNTRIES INCLUDING UKRAINE
BELIEVE THAT SECRETARY CLINTON
WAS GOING TO WIN AND MANY SAID
SOME PRETTY DISPARAGING THINGS
ABOUT PRESIDENT TRUMP AND I
CAN'T BLAME HIM FOR FEELING LIKE
THIS. WHEN WE WERE
SETTING UP, I REMEMBER I HAD A
PORTFOLIO OF 50+ COUNTRIES WITH
THE EUROPEAN UNION AND WE
THOUGHT IT PRUDENT TO COLLECT AS
MUCH AS POSSIBLE ABOUT COMMENTS
THAT PEOPLE MIGHT HAVE SAID
ABOUT THE PRESIDENT DURING THE
CAMPAIGN WHEN HE WAS EITHER ONE
OF THE CANDIDATES TO BE THE
NOMINEE FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
OR WHEN HE WAS ACTUALLY THE
CANDIDATE RUNNING AGAINST
HILLARY CLINTON AND AM SORRY TO
SAY THERE IS AN AWFUL LOT AND I
SHOULD NOT BRING THEM HERE
BECAUSE IT WILL HAVE
CONSEQUENCES AND AN AWFUL LOT
ART SENIOR OFFICIALS THAT SAID
SOME PRETTY HURTFUL THINGS ABOUT
THE PRESIDENT
AND I WOULD ALSO PERSONALLY TAKE
OFFENSE TO SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT WAS THAT IF I WERE THE
PRESIDENT BUT THE DIFFERENCE
HERE IS THAT IT HASN'T HAD ANY
MAJOR IMPACT ON HIS FEELINGS
TOWARDS THOSE COUNTRIES. NOT
THAT I HAVE SEEN. I'VE ALSO
HEARD THE PRESIDENT SAY AND HE
SAID IT IN PUBLIC SO I'M NOT
REVEALING ANY EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE THAT UKRAINE "TRIED TO
TAKE ME DOWN." AMBASSADOR
CHARLIE HAS BEEN REMOVED AND
THERE WERE SOME PRETTY
UNPLEASANT STATEMENTS AND
ILL-ADVISED THINGS BUT
THERE ARE A WHOLE LIST OF
INVESTORS THAT TWEET IT OUT AND
HAVE PUBLIC COMMENTS ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT AS WELL AND IT DID NOT
AFFECT HAVING MEETINGS WITH THEM
AND IF IT WOULD, THERE WOULD BE
A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT HE WOULD
NOT HAVE MET WITH.
>> THANK YOU. I SEEK UNANIMOUS
CONSENT TO ADD TO THE RECORD  A
POLITICAL ARTICLE OF DECEMBER 1
OF 2016 ENTITLED RUSSIA ACCUSES
UKRAINE OF SABOTAGING TRUMP
AND OUTLINES THE RUSSIAN SENIOR
OFFICIALS MAKING ALLEGATIONS
THAT THERE WAS UKRAINIAN
INTERFERENCE IN THE 2016
ELECTION.
>> NO OBJECTION.
>> MR. CONAWAY.
>> I YIELD MY TIME.
>> THANK YOU FOR YELLING. I
WANT TO GO WHERE CONGRESSMAN
HINES LEFT OFF AND
DR. HILL, HE WAS NOT DEFENDING
YOU BUT HIMSELF AND DEMOCRATS. I
WANT TO MAKE SURE THE RECORD IS
VERY CLEAR. RANKING MEMBER NUNEZ
WAS CORRECT. HE CORRECTLY NOTED
IN HIS OPENING THAT REPUBLICANS
WITH THE FIRST ONES TO RAISE THE
ISSUE OF RUSSIAN INTERFERENCE IN
THE 2016 ELECTION AND THE
DISAGREEMENT WAS ABOUT RUSSIAN
MEDDLING BUT ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT PRESIDENT TRUMP CONSPIRED
WITH RUSSIA, A FALSE ALLEGATION
SPECIFICALLY BY SOME DEMOCRATS
ON THIS COMMITTEE AND WITH THAT,
I WANT TO TURN TO YOU IN THE
PART OF THE CONVERSATION WITH
YOUR TESTIMONY WHERE YOU SAID
YOU HEARD PRESIDENT TRUMP SAY
WILL HE DO THE INVESTIGATION AND
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SAID HE HE
WILL DO ANYTHING YOU ASK HIM TO.
IS THAT RIGHT?
>> YES, SIR.
>> WHAT DID PRESIDENT TRUMP SAY
NEXT?
>> HE SAID WHAT ABOUT SWEDEN
.
>> HE SAID WHAT?
>> I'M SORRY, I NEED LOOK BACK
TO THE CONVERSATION .
>> EXACTLY, THEN THEY TURNED TO
THE SWEDEN CONVERSATION.  HE
SAID GOOD, WHAT ABOUT SWEDEN.
>> GOOD, WHAT ABOUT SWEDEN. WHY
ISN'T THAT IN YOUR STATEMENT?
>> IT'S NOT A WORD FOR WORD
EVERY SINGLE WORD OF THE
CONVERSATION.
>> BUT IT IS THE MOST IMPORTANT
PART OF THE CONVERSATION.
>> THEN THEY TURNED TO SWEDEN,
THEY TURNED TO THE OTHER TOPIC.
>> RESPECTFULLY, THIS
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY  IS BASED ON
THE CALL THE DAY BEFORE WERE
PRESIDENT TRUMP AS PART OF A
BRIBERY SCHEME IS PART OF THE
EXTORTION SCHEME IN A QUID PRO
QUO AND DEMANDED INVESTIGATIONS
IN EXCHANGE FOR EITHER MILITARY
AID OR WHITE HOUSE MEETINGS
IN THE NEXT DAY YOU WERE WITNESS
TO RECEIVING WORD THAT THE
BRIBERY SCHEME WAS SUCCESSFUL.
HIS RESPONSE WAS GOOD
,  WHAT ABOUT SWEDEN.
>> YES, SIR. THAT WAS EXTREMELY
BRIEF.
>> WHAT WAS THE FIRST THING THE
PRESIDENT SETTLE McCALL?
THERE WAS A CLEAR RECOLLECTION.
>> SONDLAND GREETED THE
PRESIDENT.
>> HOW?
>> HE SAID HELLO AND THE
PRESIDENT SAID ARE YOU IN
UKRAINE?
>> YOU THINK HE SAID YOU ARE IN
>> HE SAID ARE YOU IN UKRAINE?
>> WHAT DID YOU HEAR PRESIDENT
TRUMP  SAY?
>> I DID NOT HEAR THAT
CONVERSATION.
>> YOU SAID THE CONVERSATION
WAS VERY LOUD AND HIS VOICE WAS
RECOGNIZABLE
WHEN THE CONVERSATION SHIFTED, I
COULD ONLY HEAR AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND THE SIDE OF THE
CONVERSATION.
>> YES, SIR, AS I TESTIFIED. THE
INITIAL PART OF THE CALL , HE
WINCED AND HELD THE PHONE AWAY
FROM HIS EAR FOR THE INITIAL
PORTION AND THEN AT SOME POINT,
HE STOPPED DOING THAT AND I
DON'T KNOW WHY OR IF HE TURNED
THE VOLUME DOWN OR IF HE SPOKE
MORE QUIETLY
OR I DON'T KNOW WHAT CHANGED.
>> WHAT DID CHANGE? THIS IS
IMPORTANT AND MEMORABLE.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
>> OKAY.
HOW TO THE CONVERSATION END?
>> I ONLY HEARD AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND'S SIDE OF THE
CONVERSATION AND HE SAID  HE WAS
GIVING THE PRESIDENT ADVICE ON
HOW TO DEAL WITH THE SITUATION
AND HE SAID THEY SHOULD HAVE
RELEASED HIM ON YOUR WORD AND
YOU CAN TELL THEM YOU TRIED.
>> PRESIDENT TRUMP RECEIVED
WORD THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY HAD
AGREED TO THE INVESTIGATIONS
,  HE SAID GOOD AND WHAT ABOUT
SWEDEN?
>> YES.
>> WHEN EXACTLY DID GORDON
SONDLAND ASK  PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
ABOUT THE INVESTIGATION?
>> WHEN DID GORDON SONDLAND ASK
ZELENSKY ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATIONS?
>> YES.
>> IN WHICH MEANING DID HE
RAISE THE INVESTIGATIONS?
>>
THE DAY BEFORE ON THE CALL THE
NEXT DAY, GORDON SONDLAND OF THE
ANSWER THAT WAS HE WOULD DO THE
INVESTIGATION SO WHEN DID HE ASK
ABOUT THE INVESTIGATION?
>> MY ASSUMPTION IS IN THE
CLOSED DOOR MEETING.
>> I WANT TO MAKE SURE THE
RECORD IS CLEAR THAT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND TESTIFIED THAT THE
TOPIC OF  CONVERSATION DID NOT
--
>> TAKE YOU, YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO THANK BOTH OF
OUR WITNESSES FOR BEING HERE
TODAY  AND I WOULD LIKE TO TURN
OUR DISCUSSION TO THE CAMPAIGN
TO REMOVE CAREER DIPLOMAT
AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH. BOTH OF YOU IN YOUR
VARIOUS CAPACITIES HAD TO WORK
WITH HER  AND BOTH OF YOU
WITNESSED WHAT I WOULD CALL A
SMEAR CAMPAIGN. I WANTED TO KNOW
YOUR THOUGHTS, DR. HILL, WHAT
WAS YOUR VIEW OF AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH'S EXPERIENCE AND HER
WORK IN THE UKRAINE  AND DO YOU
CONSIDER TO BE A SMEAR CAMPAIGN?
>> I HAD THE HIGHEST REGARD FOR
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH BOTH IN
TERMS OF HER INTEGRITY  IN THE
HIGH STANDARDS OF WORK THAT SHE
WAS CARRYING OUT AS AN INVESTOR
AND THROUGHOUT HER WHOLE CAREER.
I DO BELIEVE THERE WAS A SMEAR
CAMPAIGN AND I WANT TO SAY FOR
THE RECORD THAT I THINK IT WAS
UNNECESSARY. IF THERE IS A
DECISION TO HAVE A POLITICAL
AMBASSADOR, THAT WOULD BE
PERFECTLY ACCEPTABLE
IN EXACTLY THE RIGHT OF THE
PRESIDENT TO BE ABLE TO DO THAT
BUT I DID NOT SEE WHY IT WAS
NECESSARY TO HAVE SUCH THAT
EXTENT.
>> MR. HOLMES, DO YOU THANK YOU
TALK ABOUT THE INTEGRITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH?
>> YES, MA'AM. SHE WAS
EXTREMELY PROFESSIONAL AND
RESPECTED
BY UKRAINIANS AND ALSO WITH
AMERICAN SENIOR OFFICIALS
INCLUDING MEMBERS OF THE
COMMITTEE IN CONGRESS. SHE IS
EXTREMELY DEDICATED AND
HARD-WORKING
.
>> DID YOU SEE IT AS A SMEAR
CAMPAIGN AS WELL?
>> I DID.
>> WHAT WAS THE EFFECT THAT HAD
ON MORALE OF OTHER PROFESSIONALS
THAT YOU WORKED WITH?
>> IT WAS A VERY CONFUSING TIME
AS I HAVE SAID BEFORE. THE
PRESIDENT HAS A RIGHT TO
REMOVE AND AMBASSADOR FOR ANY OR
NO REASON AT ALL BUT IT WAS NOT
CLEAR AS TO WHY THIS WAS
HAPPENING OR WHY PEOPLE WERE NOT
STANDING UP FOR HER.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO TURN DR. HILL
TO YOUR BOSS. YOUR BOSS WAS
AMBASSADOR BOLTON, RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> DID YOUR BOSS, AMBASSADOR
BOLTON TELL YOU THAT GIULIANI
WAS A HAND GRENADE?
>> HE DID.
>> WHAT DO YOU THINK HE MEANT BY
HIS CHARACTERIZATION OF
GIULIANI?
>> WHAT HE MEANT WAS PRETTY
CLEAR TO ME  IN THE CONTEXT OF
ALL THE STATEMENTS THAT GIULIANI
WAS MAKING PUBLICLY ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATIONS THAT HE WAS
PROMOTING IN THE STORYLINE AND
THE NARRATIVE
THAT WOULD BACKFIRE AND I THINK
IT HAD BACKFIRED.
>> WAS A NARRATIVE ALSO
INCLUSIVE  ABOUT AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH?
>> THEY MADE THAT COMMENT,
ABSOLUTELY AND THAT WAS IN THE
CONTEXT OF MY DISCUSSIONS WITH
HIM ABOUT WHAT WAS HAPPENING TO
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH.
>> I WAS PARTICULARLY STRUCK BY
YOUR TESTIMONY, DR. HILL ABOUT
RECEIVING  HATEFUL CALLS AND
BEING ACCUSED OF BEING A SAURUS
MOLE IN THE WHITE HOUSE. ARE YOU
A
NEVER TRUMPER OR HAVE YOU
REMAINED LOYAL?
>> I'M REALLY NOT SURE WHAT THE
TERM COLONEL VINDMAN IS BUT  I
CHOSE TO COME IN TO THE
ADMINISTRATION. I COULD HAVE
EASILY SAID NO
WHEN I WAS APPROACHED.
>> YES BUT YOU DID NOT SIGN UP
TO HAVE HATEFUL CALLS AND THE
LIKE.
>> UNFORTUNATELY, WHERE WE ARE
TODAY, THAT IS COMING WITH THE
TERRITORY AND IT IS CONTINUING.
WE ARE CONSTANTLY HAVING TO
BLOCK TWITTER
AND WE HAVE BEEN DOING THIS OVER
THE LAST COUPLE OF DAYS. AS I
SAID IN MY DEPOSITION, THIS
COULD HAPPEN TO ANY SINGLE
PERSON IN THIS ROOM THE MEMBERS
OF THE PRESS OR CONGRESS AND
STAFF. I THINK WE HAVE TO FIND
WAYS OF COMBATING THIS AND HE
GETS BACK SO LATE TO THE THINGS
THAT OUR ADVERSARIES CAN
EXPLOIT.
>> EXACTLY. THIS SHOULD NOT
BECOME A NEW  NORMAL. WOULD YOU
AGREE?
>> IT SHOULD NOT.
>> I ALSO THINK THIS KIND OF
BEHAVIOR , INSTEAD OF KEEPING
YOU DOWN WOULD MAKE YOU
UNDETERRED.
ARE YOU MORE DETERMINED TO
CONTINUE TO DO YOUR WORK AND TO
DO PROFESSIONALLY?
>> I AM AND I THINK ALL OF MY
COLLEAGUES ARE AS WELL  BECAUSE
WE CAN'T LET THIS STAND AND I'LL
PICK ANYONE HERE WANTS TO LET
THIS STAND.
I DON'T THINK ANYONE WANTS TO
COME UNDER PERSONAL ATTACK.
>> I AM PERSONALLY THINK THIS
HAS BECOME THE NEW NORM AND WE
ARE LED  ON THE TOP OF THE FOOD
TRAINED BY HER PRESENT WHICH IS
UNFORTUNATE. I'M DISHEARTENED BY
HIS TREATMENT OF WOMEN AND I
THINK THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS
THERE IS A LONG LINE OF STRONG
TALENTED WOMEN
WHO HAVE BEEN SMEARED AND
VICTIMIZED BY THIS PRESIDENT AND
WE CAN EITHER CHOOSE TO IGNORE
IT OR DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
FRANKLY I THINK, WHETHER YOU
VOTED FOR HIM OR SUPPORTED HIM
OR NOT THAT DOING SO WAS WRONG.
YOU CAN SIMPLY REMOVE SOMEONE.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO SMEAR THEM.
THANK YOU AND I YIELD BACK MY
TIME.
>> MR. TURNER, I WANT TO ECHO
THAT SENTIMENT.
THIS HAS BEEN VIOLENT HATEFUL
AND FOR THOSE YOU THAT ARE
KEEPING SCORE AT HOME, THE
EFFORTS ACCUSER PRESIDENT OF
COERCION AND EXTORTION OR
BRIBERY WITH THESE WITNESSES AS
WE NOW COME TO THE CLOSING
SESSION OF THIS, BASICALLY
BREAKDOWN AS FOLLOWS. WE HAVE
CANTED AMBASSADOR TAYLOR THAT
SPOKE OF HEARSAY OF THESE
MATTERS THAT THEY SAID THEY HAD
HEARD THAT WERE ALL STATEMENTS
THAT THEY HAD HEARD FROM OTHERS
THAT HAVE ALSO TESTIFIED SO
THERE IS THE ONE THAT IS MISSING
IN TAYLOR BASICALLY SAID THEY
HEARD FROM IT'S ALL IN AND CAN
AS WELL EMERSON SAID HE HEARD IT
FROM SOLOMON AND SONDLAND THAT
HE HEARD IT FROM NO ONE ON THE
PLANET .
THEY HAVE DIRECT TESTIMONY WITH
THE PHONE CALLED THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES AND BEYOND
THAT,  THEY ONLY HAD CONTACT
WITH SONDLAND AND HE INDICATED
HE HAD  CONTACT WITH NO ONE ON
THE PLANET. VOLKER TESTIFIED
THAT HE DID HAVE DIRECT CONTACT
BOTH WITH UKRAINIANS AND THE
PRESIDENT OF THE NIGHT SATAN
INDICATED THAT THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES DID NOT
CONDITION EITHER A PHONE CALL OR
MEETING OR AID UPON UKRAINE ON
THE TAKING OF THE INVESTIGATIONS
AND TESTIFIED THAT THE
UKRAINIANS DID NOT BELIEVE IT
EITHER.
WE ALSO HAVE DIRECT STATEMENTS
WITH THE FOREIGN MINISTER THAT
THEY DID NOT FEEL ANY PRESSURE
TO UNDERTAKE INVESTIGATIONS AND
WE ALSO HAVE THE EVIDENCE THAT
WE ARE ALL VERY MUCH AWARE WHICH
THEY DID NOT UNDERTAKE ANY
INVESTIGATIONS. WE ALSO HAVE
YOVANOVITCH AND DR. HILL
.  YOVANOVITCH LEFT THE FOR THE
TIME PERIOD AND DR. HILL, WE
APPRECIATE YOU BEING WITH US
TODAY  AND MR. HOLMES. DR. HILL,
YOU HAVE PROVIDED ME PROBABLY
THE GREATEST PIECE OF EVIDENCE
THAT IS BEFORE US TO ILLUSTRATE
THE PROBLEM WITH HEARSAY. YOU
SAID BASED ON QUESTIONS AND
STATEMENTS, "I HAVE HEARD SOME
OF YOU ON THIS COMMITTEE
APPEAR THAT RUSSIA AND THE
SECURITY SERVICES DID NOT
CONDUCT A CAMPAIGN AGAINST OUR
COUNTRY." PERHAPS SOMEHOW IT WAS
UKRAINE. THIS WAS HELD WITH THE
ACTIVE MEASURES THAT WAS VOTED
ON BY ALL OF US AND BEGINS WITH
THE SENTENCE. IN 2015, RUSSIA
BEGAN HAVING A COVERT CAMPAIGN
AIMED AT THE PRESENT ELECTION
AND EVERYONE OF US
, WITH SMALL EFFORT ON YOUR
PART, YOU WOULD HAVE KNOWN THAT
WHAT YOU JUST SAID WAS NOT TRUE.
WHAT YOU HAD HEARD BUT YOU FELT
THE NEED TO PUT IN YOUR
EIGHT-PAGE STATEMENT BEFORE YOU
WENT ON TO TELL US A BUNCH OF
OTHER THINGS THAT YOU HEARD
ABOUT OTHER PEOPLE NO MATTER HOW
CONVINCED YOU WERE. ONE OF WHICH
WAS THAT YOU SAID AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND MET WITH GIULIANI AND
ACTUALLY HE TESTIFIED  THAT HE
HAD NOT
MET WITH HIM. HE BRIEFLY MET
WITH HIM IN HIS LIFETIME BY
SHAKING HIS HAND BUT THIS IS THE
PROBLEM WITH THE MATTER HOW
CONVINCED WE ARE AND HOW MUCH WE
BELIEVE WE KNOW THAT WHAT WE
HAVE HEARD IS TRUE, IT IS STILL
JUST ONLY WHAT WE HAVE HEARD BUT
SO FAR IN THIS HEARING IN THE
SERIES OF HEARINGS, THE ONLY
THING THAT WE HAVE IS VOLKER
SAYING I SPOKE TO THE PRESIDENT
AND SPOKE TO THE UKRAINIANS AND
NEITHER OF WHICH BELIEVE AID WAS
CONDITIONED AND NEITHER WHICH
BELIEVE THAT THE PRESIDENT WAS
REQUIRING IT AND AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND SAID NO ONE ON THE
PLANET TOLD HIM THAT WAS THE
CASE. THAT IS THE SOLE EVIDENCE
ON THE ONE THING THAT IS
INTERESTING IS AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND SAID  THE MEETING WAS
CONDITIONED UPON INVITATION AND
I THINK AMBASSADOR VOLKER WHO
HAS GREAT INTEGRITY SAID THAT
WAS NOT THE CASE AND EVEN IF
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND IS CORRECT
AND THAT IS HEARSAY AND YOU
DON'T KNOW, HE DID NOT TESTIFY
TO THAT. LET'S SAY SOMEONE
BESIDES THE PRESIDENT TOLD HIM
THAT, YOU GUYS WANT TO BE THE
LAUGHING STOCK OF HISTORY TO
IMPEACH A PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES BECAUSE HE DIDN'T
TAKE A MEETING? NOW,
MR. HOLMES
--
>> IS THERE A QUESTION FOR DR.
HILL?
>> MR. HOLMES, IN YOUR TESTIMONY
YOU SAID THAT SONDLAND  SAID
HE LOVES YOU AND WILL DO
ANYTHING YOU WANT. THAT
INFORMATION HAD NOTHING TO DO
WITH THE SUBJECT MATTER OF ANY
OF THESE HEARINGS. IT WAS
ANECDOTAL IN YOUR STATEMENTS
THAT YOUR INTERESTS ARE
PROTECTING UKRAINE ARE VERY
DUBIOUS WHEN YOU VARIOUS
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY BY MAKING
THOSE STATEMENTS
.  WHO CARES THAT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND OF THAT AND YOU DIDN'T
EMBARRASS AMBASSADOR  SONDLAND.
YOU EMBARRASSED ZELENSKY.
>> YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED. MR.
CARSON, YOUR RECOGNIZE.
>> THANK YOU BOTH FOR YOUR
SERVICE. I WOULD LIKE TO TALK
MORE IN DEPTH  ABOUT THE CHIEF
OF STAFF AND THE ROLE UNDER THE
INVESTIGATION. YOU TESTIFIED
THAT MR. MULVANEY AND SONDLAND
WERE INVOLVED WITH A LETTER SENT
TO UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT  ON MAY
20 NOT CONGRATULATING HIM WITH
HIS INAUGURATION. DO YOU RECALL
THAT?
>> I DID, YES.
>> TOWARDS THE END OF THAT
LETTER, PRESIDENT TRUMP
CLOSED WITH "I WOULD LIKE TO
INVITE YOU TO MEET ME AT THE
WHITE HOUSE IN WASHINGTON D.C.
AS SOON AS WE CAN FIND A
MUTUALLY CONVENIENT TIME." DR.
HILL, WAS THIS LETTER DRAFTED TO
THE NORMAL PROCEDURES AT THE NFC
THAT THEY USE TO SEND LETTERS?
>> THE FIRST PART OF IT WAS
EXCEPT THE LAST PARAGRAPH.
>> YOU ALSO TESTIFIED
THAT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND TOLD
YOU THAT HE HAD DICTATED THAT
LINE TO THE PRESIDENT  AND THAT
HE SAID TAD THAT TO THE LETTER.
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> YOU SAID YOU WERE NERVOUS
ABOUT THAT. WHY WERE YOU
NERVOUS, DR. HILL?
>> BECAUSE AT THIS JUNCTURE IT
HAD BECOME QUITE APPARENT  THAT
THE PRESIDENT BUT WAS VERY KEEN
ON HAVING A MEETING WITH MR.
ZELENSKY AS FOR ALL THE REASONS
THAT WE HAVE LAID OUT AND  YOU
RAISE THE EXPECTATIONS OF AN
INVITATION COMING SHORTLY.
>> DR. HILL, YOU ALSO TESTIFIED
THAT  AMBASSADOR SONDLAND WAS
FREQUENTLY MEETING WITH
MULVANEY. THE CAMPAIGN
ULTIMATELY LED TO AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH BEING RECALLED FROM
HER POST AND YOU ALSO TESTIFIED
THAT HER REMOVAL WAS THE SPIRIT
OF IN A TURNING POINT FOR YOU.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN WHY?
>> AGAIN, AS WE HAVE ALL MADE
CLEAR, AMBASSADOR  YOVANOVITCH,
YOU SAW  FOR YOURSELF THAT SHE
IS A PERSON OF GREAT INTEGRITY
AND ONE OF OUR FINEST FOREIGN
SERVICE OFFICERS
AND THIS HAD BEEN A DECISION TO
REMOVE HER AND REPLACE HER WITH
A POLITICAL APPOINTEE AND AGAIN
THAT IS PERFECTLY WITHIN THE
RIGHTS OF THE PRESIDENT AND
SOMETIMES IT IS HIGHLY ADVISABLE
TO EMPHASIZE TWO CARTRIDGES
EXACTLY HOW CLOSE THE
RELATIONSHIP IS LIKELY TO BE TO
HAVE SOMEONE THAT IS CLOSE TO
THE PRESIDENT
IF IT IS AN IMPORTANT
RELATIONSHIP BUT WHAT WAS
DISCOURAGING WAS ALL THE
ACCUSATIONS THAT WERE BEING
FIRED AT AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH
LEADING HER TO BE  TREATED
INCLUDE MY MEMBERS OF THE
PRESIDENT'S FAMILY AND WE ALSO
BELIEVE THAT MR. GIULIANI AND
OTHERS INCLUDING PEOPLE THAT
WERE RECENTLY INDICTED WITH THE
AMERICAN GENTLEMEN HAD FOR SOME
REASON DECIDED THAT AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH  WAS SOME KIND OF
PERSONAL PROBLEM FOR THEM AND
THEY HAD DECIDED TO ENGAGE IN
THE KIND OF THINGS WE HAVE BEEN
DISCUSSING ABOUT AND SHE WAS AN
EASY TARGET BUT I WAS VERY SORRY
TO HEAR ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED AND
I THINK THIS JUST ILLUSTRATES
THE POINT IN THE PROBLEM THAT WE
ARE DEALING WITH HERE TODAY.
>> I WAS ALSO STRUCK BY YOUR
TESTIMONY THAT YOU ARE THE
TARGET OF FALSE ACCUSATIONS
DURING YOUR TIME WITH THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION. YOU TESTIFIED
ABOUT RECEIVING HATEFUL CALLS
AND BEING ACCUSED OF BEING A
MOLE IN THE WHITE HOUSE.
YOU TESTIFIED ABOUT DEATH
THREATS AND CALLS I YOUR HOME.
IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> I'M SORRY YOU HAD TO GO
THROUGH ALL THIS AND YOU DON'T
STRIKE ME AS A WOMAN THAT IS
EASILY DETERRED
.  YOU ARE NOT EASILY DETERRED,
ARE YOU DR. HILL?
>> I'M NOT, NO.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE. I
YIELD MY TIME.
>> MY CAUTION TO BOTH OF YOU
THAT REPRESENTATIONS WITH PRIOR
WITNESSES WHAT THEY SAID AND
WHAT YOU HAVE SAID MAY NOT BE
CONSISTENT WITH THE FACTS. THIS
WAS FROM AMBASSADOR SONDLAND'S
OPENING STATEMENT AND AFTER THE
MEETING , I ALSO MET WITH THE
SENIOR AIDE
AND I DON'T RECALL THE SPECIFICS
OF THE CONVERSATION BUT I
BELIEVE THE ISSUE WAS PROBABLY
APART OF THAT AGENDA OR MEETING.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHAIRMAN AND
THANK YOU BOTH FOR BEING HERE.
IN 1988,  I VOLUNTEERED TO JOIN
THE ARMY RESERVE BECAUSE I SAW
OUR COUNTRY UNDER ATTACK. BILL
CLINTON WAS THE PRESIDENT AND I
DID NOT VOTE FOR BILL CLINTON
BUT HE WAS MY COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
AND IT DIDN'T MATTER THAT I
DIDN'T VOTE FOR HIM. I WAS
GRATEFUL TO LIVE IN A COUNTRY
THAT GETS TO LEGITIMATELY ELECT
OUR LEADERS AND I HAVE BEEN TO
PLACES WHERE PEOPLE DON'T GET TO
AND IT IS NOT PRETTY AND I
RESPECT OUR SYSTEM AND EXCEPT
THE RESULTS THAT ARE DETERMINED
BY THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. I
DEPLOYED TO IRAQ IN 2005 IN 2006
AS AN ARMY SURGEON WITH SOLDIERS
FROM MANY BACKGROUNDS OF THE
MOST IMPORTANT THING IS WE WERE
ALL AMERICANS. THAT WAS FIRST
AND FOREMOST. WE TREATED OUR
TROOPS AND THE ENEMY WINNING
OVER THE HEARTS AND MINDS OF
PEOPLE THAT NEVER KNEW US
BECAUSE OF THEIR DICTATOR,
SADDAM HUSSEIN. WE TOLD HIM WE
WERE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL THEIR
PROBLEMS AND THAT WAS THE
NARRATIVE. SPEAKING OF
NARRATIVES,
DR. HILL, I'M SORRY, YOU SAID
BASED ON STATEMENTS THAT SOME
BELIEVE RUSSIA DID NOT CONDUCT A
CAMPAIGN AGAINST OUR COUNTRY AND
THAT IS FALSE. THAT IS THE
NARRATIVE AND THAT IS WHERE YOU
HAVE HEARD IT. WE DID A WHOLE
REPORT ON IT AND WE AGREE THAT
RUSSIA HAS DONE THIS SINCE THE
SOVIET UNION AND THEY HAVE
ACTUALLY GOTTEN BETTER AT IT.
THAT IS A PROBLEM. AT THE SAME
TIME, CERTAIN UKRAINIANS DID
WORK AGAINST CANDIDATE TRUMP.
SOME WITH THE DNC AND IF THAT IS
DEBUNKED, WHY IS IT THAT MR.
SCHIFF IS DENIED WITH TRENTON TO
TESTIFY AND COME FORWARD AND
DEBUNK IT? I ASKED IF IT WAS
GOOD FOR THE COUNTRY IN THE DNC
AND THE CAMPAIGN TO PAY
CHRISTOPHER STILL TO DIG UP TAKE
DIRT WITH OTHER SERVICES AND
RESOURCES ON THEIR POLITICAL
RIVAL? WAS A GOOD FOR AMERICA TO
CLAIM HAVING EVIDENCE OF THE
PRESIDENT COLLUDING WITH RUSSIA
WHEN HE DID NOT AND COSTING THE
TAXPAYERS MILLIONS? BEING
DEBUNKED BY SPECIAL COUNSEL? I
WOULD SAY THE FALSE NARRATIVE
GOT CAUGHT.
WAS IT GOOD FOR THE COUNTRY AND
FOR AMERICANS AND FOREIGNERS
ALIKE TO ATTEMPT TO ENTRAP
MEMBERS OF THE PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN SPECIFICALLY THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN? I HAVE COME TO BELIEVE
THROUGH ALL THIS THAT SOME IN
POWER DO THINK IT IS GOOD AND
OKAY AND NOW WE ARE HERE WITH
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS AND ARE
RIGHT THAT CERTAINLY CONGRESS
HAS AN EVEN WITH VERY PARTISAN
RULES BUT I AM CURIOUS. THIS
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY WAS
ANNOUNCED BEFORE THE
WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINT WAS EVEN
ANNOUNCED AND I'M CURIOUS WHY
THE LAWYER FOR THE WHISTLEBLOWER
ANNOUNCED THAT TO TO IMPEACH THE
PRESIDENT THAT HE AROUNDS THAT
RIGHT AFTER TRUMP WON. I KNOW IT
HURTS AFTER LOSING AN ELECTION
ESPECIALLY AS AMERICANS
BUT WE USUALLY GET OVER IT AND I
WOULD IMAGINE IT WOULD HURT EVEN
MORE IF YOU WERE PROMISED A
POSITION IN THE NEXT
ADMINISTRATION AND LOST. YOUR
HOPES AND YOUR DREAMS
ARE DASHED. I HAVE SEEN HATRED
FOR POLITICAL REASONS AND
SPECIFICALLY ON JUNE 14, 2017 AT
A BALLFIELD IN VIRGINIA AND I
SEEM HATRED IN WAR AND I KNOW
THAT HATRED BLINDS PEOPLE. I'VE
BEEN IN WAR AND I'VE STUDIED WAR
AND COUPS CREATE DIVISION. IT IS
TIME FOR THIS PHASE OF THE
PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED AND
PROCLAIMED DEMOCRAT Q TO AND.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE
AND THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE AND
I YIELD BACK.
>> CUT I ACTUALLY SAY SOMETHING?
>> I WAS GOING TO ASK IF YOU
WOULD LIKE TO RESPOND.
DR. HILL, YOU MAY RESPOND.
>> I THINK WHAT IS IT WAS
REALLY POWERFUL ABOUT THE
IMPORTANCE OF OVERCOMING HATRED
AND CERTAINLY PARTISAN IN
DIVISION. IT IS UNFORTUNATE THAT
CONGRESSMAN TURNER AND MAC OS
HAVE BOTH LEFT AS WELL BECAUSE I
THINK ALL OF US THAT CAME HERE
UNDER LEGAL OBLIGATION, WE CAME
AS FACT WITNESSES.
WHEN I WAS REFERRING TO
QUESTIONS THAT I HAD HEARD, IT
WAS IN THE CONTEXT OF THE
DEPOSITION THAT I GAVE BECAUSE I
WAS VERY WORRIED ABOUT HOW SOME
OF THE QUESTIONS AND THE TURN IT
WAS TAKING. I UNDERSTAND THE
POINT IS BEING MADE ABOUT
INDIVIDUALS WITH THESE ARTICLES
TAKING DIFFERENT POSITIONS IN
OUR ELECTIONS. I DON'T BELIEVE
THERE SHOULD BE ANY INTERFERENCE
OF ANY KIND AND I THINK IT WAS
UNFAIR FOR PEOPLE'S ALREADY CALL
THE ELECTION
AND TO MAKE ATTACKS ON CANDIDATE
AND PRESIDENT TRUMP AND I KNOW
THIS HAS BEEN A HUGE CLOUD OVER
THIS PRESIDENCY AND OVER OUR
WHOLE DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM. THAT IS
WHY AS A NONPARTISAN PERSON AND
EXERT ON RUSSIA  AND ON VLADIMIR
PUTIN, I WANTED TO COME IN TO
SERVE THE COUNTRY TO SEE IF I
COULD HELP. I HEARD PRESIDENT
TRUMP SAY THAT HE WANTED TO
IMPROVE THE RELATIONS IN RUSSIA
AND I BELIEVE WE HAVE TO. WE
CAN'T BE IN THIS UNENDING
CONFRONTATION. WE HAVE TO FIND A
WAY TO STABILIZE OUR
RELATIONSHIP. AS ALWAYS TO STOP
THEM TO DO WHAT THEY DID IN 2016
FOR 2020. THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT
YOU HAVE PUT ACROSS VERY
ELOQUENTLY AND THE OTHER IS
RELATED TO THIS INQUIRY WHERE WE
ARE HERE TO PROVIDE WHAT WE KNOW
AND WHAT WE HAVE HEARD. I
UNDERSTAND THAT FOR MANY
MEMBERS, AND THIS MAY BE HEARSAY
AND I UNDERSTAND THAT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND HAS HAD A LOT OF THINGS
AND I HAVE TOLD YOU WHAT HE TOLD
ME AND WHAT OTHERS TOLD ME. A
LOT OF OTHER PEOPLE HAVE SAID
THINGS TO ME AS WELL AND ALSO TO
MR. HOLMES AND WE ARE HERE TO
RELATE TO WHAT WE HEARD AND WHAT
WE SAW AND WHAT WE DID AND TO BE
OF SOME HELP TO ALL OF YOU IN
MAKING A MOMENTOUS DECISION
HERE. WE ARE NOT THE PEOPLE WHO
MAKE THAT DECISION ONE WHAT YOU
SAID HERE. IT WAS VERY ELOQUENT
AND VERY MOVING ABOUT YOUR
SERVICE
AND TRYING TO BRING IT ALL
TOGETHER AS AMERICANS. WE NEED
TO BE TOGETHER AGAIN IN 2020 SO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE CAN MAKE A
CHOICE ABOUT THE FUTURE AND TO
MAKE THEIR VOTE IN THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION WITHOUT
ANY FEAR THAT THIS IS BEING
INTERFERED WITH FROM ANY
QUARTER WHATSOEVER SO I WANT TO
THANK YOU FOR MAKING WHAT I
THINK WAS ALSO VERY ELOQUENT AND
HEARTFELT DEFENSE.
>> THANK YOU DR. HILL.
>> DR. HILL AND MR. HOLMES,
THANK YOU BOTH FOR BEING FACT
WITNESSES.  WE ARE HERE AS
FACTFINDERS AND WE APPRECIATE
VERY MUCH YOUR PRESENTATION.
DR. HILL, I WANT TO VERIFY THE
STORY. I UNDERSTAND WHEN YOU
WERE 11 YEARS OLD THAT THERE WAS
A SCHOOLBOY THAT SET YOUR
PIGTAILS ON FIRE AND YOU ARE
TAKING A TEST AND YOU TURNED
AROUND WITH YOUR HANDS AND
GOT THE FIRE OUT AND FINISH YOUR
TEST.
>> IT IS A TRUE STORY AND I WAS
SURPRISED TO SEE THAT POP UP. IT
IS A STORY THAT I OCCASIONALLY
TELL
I LOOKED LIKE RICHARD THE THIRD
AFTER THAT IN MY BOWL HAIRCUT.
>> I THINK IT UNDERSCORES TO
THE FACT THAT YOU SPEAK TRUTH
AND I TRULY RESPECT THAT. LET ME
MOVE TO YOUR TESTIMONY AND
DEPOSITION. YOU HAD INDICATED
THAT YOU ARE DEEPLY TROUBLED
BY THE ATTACKS ON AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH AND YOU UNDERSCORED
THAT ALL INVESTORS SERVE AT THE
PLEASURE OF THE PRESIDENT AND
CERTAINLY IN THE CASE OF
AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH, HE
COULD'VE JUST ASKED HER TO COME
HOME  BUT THAT DID NOT HAPPEN
AND IN FACT THERE WAS A
SYSTEMATIC CHARACTER
ASSASSINATION THAT WENT ON FROM
2018 IF I'M NOT MISTAKEN
BUT YOU SAY IT THE MOST OBVIOUS
EXPLANATION THAT IT HAS TO BE
SAID AND IT SEEMED TO BE
BUSINESS DEALINGS OF INDIVIDUALS
WHO WANTED TO IMPROVE THEIR
INVESTMENT POSITIONS INSIDE OF
UKRAINE ITSELF.
YOU WOULD THEN ASK WHO THESE
UNDERSTAND IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
HER REMOVAL AND USE IT I
UNDERSTAND THIS TO BE THE RESULT
OF THE CAMPAIGN THAT MR.
GIULIANI HAD SET IN MOTION IN
CONJUNCTION WITH PEOPLE THAT ARE
WRITING ARTICLES AND
PUBLICATIONS THAT I HAD EXPECTED
BETTER OF. ALSO, YOU KNOW THE
CONSTANT DRUMBEAT OF THESE
ACCUSATIONS THAT HE WAS MAKING
ON THE TELEVISION. SO, RUDY
GIULIANI WAS PLAYING FAST AND
FURIOUS IN UKRAINE IT WOULD
APPEAR. IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> HE HAD NO OFFICIAL TASKING
WITHIN THE ADMINISTRATION, IS
THAT CORRECT?
>> OUT THAT I HAVE BEEN TOLD
WITH.
>> DID HE WORK WITH OFFICIALS?
>> I WAS LED TO UNDERSTAND, YES.
>> YOU SAID THIS WAS A MASSIVE
COMPLICATION IN TERMS OF THE
ENGAGEMENT WITH UKRAINE.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> WOULD YOU LIKE TO EXPLAIN
THAT?
>> I THINK I ALREADY LAID THAT
OUT  IN THE RESPONSE TO SOME OF
THE QUESTIONS AND WE WERE
ACTUALLY CONDUCTING FOR WHAT THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE MIGHT THINK IT'S
A BORING AND STANDARD POLICY
TOWARD UKRAINE PUSHING THEM ON
ISSUES OF REFORM IN THE ENERGY
SECTOR AND WE WERE CONCERNED
ABOUT CORRUPTION IN UKRAINE AND
WE WANTED TO HELP THEM GET
SOVEREIGNTY AFTER ATTACKS BY
RUSSIA
--
>> HOW DID MR. GIULIANI'S
INVOLVEMENT AFFECT THINGS?
>> WE HAD WORKED OUT OVER THE
COURSE OF TWO YEARS IN
CONJUNCTION WITH THE EMBASSY
AND THE INTER-AGENCY AGREED
ACTION PLAN. THESE ARE THINGS
THAT
COLONEL VINDMAN AND OTHERS HAVE
BEEN WORKING ON. RUDY GIULIANI
DID NOT CARE AT ALL ABOUT THIS.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND WAS NOT
CONCERNED ABOUT THIS EITHER AND
IT WAS THE KIND OF THING THAT
EVERYONE IN A ROUTINE MOVES
FORWARD ON.
>> MR. HOLMES, YOU TALKED ABOUT
THE EXTRAORDINARY POWER THAT
RUSSIA TRIES TO ASSERT AGAINST
UKRAINE. SINCE PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY NEVER GOT HIS WHITE
HOUSE MEETING , DOESN'T THAT
MAKE
UKRAINE LOOK WEAK AND DOES NOT
BENEFIT RUSSIA?
>> ABSOLUTELY, IT DOES.
>> PRUNING THE FALSE CLAIM OF
UKRAINE INTERVENTION INTO THE U.
S. ELECTION,  THAT ALSO BENEFITS
RUSSIA, DOESN'T IT?
>> IT DOES.
>> WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP MEETS
PRIVATELY WITH WHAT WE PUTIN AT
THE G 20 SUMMIT, WHO DOES THAT
BENEFIT?
>> IT DOESN'T HELP UKRAINE.
>> IT DOESN'T HELP UKRAINE AND
BY  PRESIDENT TRUMP CALLING
UKRAINE CORRUPT, DOES THAT COME
TO RUSSIANS
BENEFIT?
>> AGAIN, DOESN'T HELP UKRAINE.
>> I THINK YOU AND I WILL YIELD
THE REST OF MY TIME TO YOU.
>> YOU ARE YIELDING ME THREE
SECONDS. NOT EVEN I CAN MAKE USE
OF THREE SECONDS.
>> THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE. I
ACTUALLY HAVE NO QUESTIONS  FOR
YOU THAT HAVE NOT ARTIE BEEN
ASKED OR MAKE POINTS THAT HAVE
NOT ALREADY BEEN MADE. I GUESS I
WOULD JUST CONCLUDE MY SOMETHING
I HAVE SAID BEFORE. THIS
IMPEACHMENT POLLUTES THE IS
FINALLY COMING TO AN END. A YEAR
OF RESISTANCE AND TWO HALF YEARS
OF THESE ABSURD ACCUSATIONS
AGAINST THE PRESIDENT WITH
RUSSIAN COLLUSION. WE HAVE GONE
FROM QUID PRO QUO TO BRIBERY AND
EXTORTION AND SEVEN WEEKS OF
HEARINGS AND 16 SECRET
CLOSED-DOOR SESSIONS AND 12
PUBLIC HEARINGS NOW WHICH YOU
ARE THE LAST WITH HUNDREDS OF
HOURS OF TESTIMONY
AND I REALLY THINK FOR THOSE
THAT HATE THE PRESIDENT, THEY
HAVE NOT CHANGED THEIR MINDS BUT
THERE ARE A LOT THAT LOOK AT
THIS AND THINK IS THAT IT?
REALLY? YOU WILL IMPEACH AND
REMOVE A PRESIDENT FOR THIS?
LIKE I SAID, IF YOU DON'T LIKE
THE PRESIDENT, YOU HAVE COME TO
THAT CONCLUSION AND MANY PEOPLE
WANTED THIS THREE YEARS AGO BUT
FOR A LOT OF AMERICANS, THEY CAN
SEE THERE IS ZERO EVIDENCE OF
ANY BRIBERY AND ZERO EVIDENCE OF
EXTORTION AND ZERO EVIDENCE OF
ANY QUID PRO QUO AND YET
IMPEACHMENT IS ALMOST
INEVITABLE.
WHY? BECAUSE THE LEADERSHIP OF
THIS COMMITTEE HAS BEEN UNFAIR
AND DISHONEST AND I KNOW WE HEAR
THESE CROCODILE TEARS FROM SOME
OF MY COLLEAGUES THAT ARE
HEARTBROKEN BECAUSE THEY FINALLY
HAVE TO IMPEACH THIS PRESIDENT
AND WE KNOW THAT IS ABSURD.
THERE IS NO PERIPHERAL
TEARS OVER THIS. THEY ARE
GETTING OVER THIS AND THERE IS
ON A PERSON IN THE COUNTRY THAT
DOESN'T KNOW THAT. EVERYONE
KNOWS THEY WILL IMPEACH THE
PRESIDENT AND SEND IT ON TO THE
SENATE BUT THAT IS THE GOOD
NEWS. THAT IS GOOD NEWS. WE'VE
ALL BEEN TO A CONCERT AND YOU
HAVE THE WARM-UP BAND AND THEN
YOU HAVE THE MAIN ACTIVE WHAT WE
HAVE SEEN HERE IS THE WARM-UP
BAND. THIS IS LIKE A BAND BUT NO
ONE HAS EVER HEARD OF BUT THE
WARM-UP AND IS OVER AND NOW WE
WILL GO ON TO THE MAIN EVENT AND
IN THE U.S. SENATE, THERE WON'T
BE ANY SECRET TESTIMONY OR
DISHONEST LEADERSHIP
FOR CHILDREN THAT REFUSES TO LET
US ASK APPROPRIATE QUESTIONS OR
TO DENY A DEFENSE. WHERE IN THE
WORLD AND WERE IN THE COUNTRY DO
YOU HAVE A TRIAL WHERE THE
PROSECUTION PRESENTS THE CASE
AND THE DEFENSE IS NOT ABLE TO?
WE WILL FINALLY BE ABLE TO GET
TO THE TRUTH. I AM TALKING OUT
OF MY COLLEAGUES IN THE SENATE.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE WITNESSES
THAT YOU NEED TO CALL IN SOME OF
THE QUESTIONS YOU NEED TASK.
FIRST, YOU HAVE TO HEAR FROM THE
WHISTLEBLOWER. THEY CAN CHOOSE
TO DO THAT IN CLOSED SESSION IF
THEY WANT TO AND I LEAVE IT UP
TO THEM BUT YOU CAN INITIATE AN
IMPEACHMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES AND NOT HAVE
TO ANSWER SOME QUESTIONS. WHO
DID HE GET HIS INFORMATION FROM?
DID HE HAVE THE CLASSIFICATION
OR CLEARANCES TO GET THAT.
WHAT IS HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN AND WHAT
HAS HE SHARED? I THINK OUR OWN
CHAIRMAN NEEDS TO BE CALLED.
WHAT INTERACTIONS DID HE HAVE
AND WHAT DID HE HAVE TO
COORDINATE OR IN ANY WAY
FACILITATE AND WHAT ABOUT HUNTER
BIDEN
. HERE IS THE KEY TO THIS.
IF HE MAKES MONEY, KNOCK
YOURSELF OUT. I DON'T CARE BUT
DID HE HAVE CONVERSATIONS WITH
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
IN GOVERNMENT POLICY WAS THAT
CHANGED AT A PARTICULARLY HIGH
LEVEL BECAUSE OF SOME OF THOSE?
DEVON ARCHER IN ALEXANDRIA
CHALUPA THAT ADMITTED THAT SHE
HAD FALSE INFORMATION AND
NELLIE OHR WITH THE STEEL
DOSSIER. I WOULD LIKE TREMENDOUS
WHAT I SAID YESTERDAY. THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE EXPECT A LOT IN
POLITICS AND THEY UNDERSTAND THE
FIGHT IN THE DEBATE  BUT ALSO
EXPECT BASIC FAIRNESS IN THESE
PROCEEDINGS HAVE BEEN ANYTHING
BUT FAIR. LISTENER HAS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO FIX THAT.
I LOOK FORWARD TO COMPLETING THE
JOB AND WITH THAT I WILL YIELD
BACK.
>>
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE. WHEN
WE LAST LEFT JULY 10, I BELIEVE
THE AMBASSADOR BOLTON SAID TO
YOU, YOU GO AND TELL EISENBERG
THAT I AM NOT PART OF WHATEVER
DRUG DEAL THEY ARE COOKING UP ON
THIS.
THAT'S CORRECT, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>>
HE IS THE CHIEF LAWYER FOR THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL,
CORRECT?
>> YES.
>> YOU WANT TO SEE HIM?
>> I DID GO TO SEE HIM. I GAVE
A SENSE THAT I HAVE GIVEN TO YOU
ON 10 JULY.
>> WHAT TOOK PLACE?
>> OF WHAT TOOK PLACE, CORRECT
INCLUDING THE DETAILS I SHARE
WITH YOU  WITH WHAT TRANSPIRED
AS I WAS WALKING IN.
>> DID YOU HAVE ONE OR TWO
MEETINGS WITH HIM ABOUT THAT?
>> I GAVE HIM THE QUICK SUMMARY
AND WE AGREED THAT WE MEET AGAIN
ON THE 11th THE NEXT DAY AND I
ALSO WANTED TO BRING MY
COLLEAGUE FOR ENERGY WHO HAD
BEEN SITTING WITH ME ON THE SOFA
FOR THE FIRST PORTION OF THE
MEETING. ALSO, I SUGGESTED THAT
HE SPEAK TO NEVER TRUMPER
SEPARATELY BECAUSE TRINITY WAS
IN THE  WAR ROOM WHEN I WRITE
AND HAVE BEEN ENGAGED IN SOME
DISCUSSION BEFORE I GOT THERE
AND AS I GOT TO THE ROOM, THEY
WERE CLEARLY IN THE COURSE OF
CONVERSATION AND I THOUGHT IT
WAS IMPORTANT FOR JOHN EISENBERG
TO HEAR FROM
COLONEL VINDMAN HIMSELF OF WHAT
HIS RECOLLECTIONS OF THE MEETING
WERE.
>> YOU RAISE THE CONCERNS THAT
AMBASSADOR BOLTON RACE, DID YOU
RAISE THAT TO THEM QUESTIONS AND
I DID.
EXECUTIVE PROCESS OF WHAT
AMBASSADOR BOLTON HAD ASKED ME
TO.
>> IN THE COURSE OF THOSE TWO
MEETINGS, WHAT DID THIS YEAR
EISENBERG SAY IN RESPONSE?
>> HE TOOK IT VERY SERIOUSLY
AND SAID THAT COLONEL VINDMAN
SHOULD  FEEL FREE TO BRING
CONCERNS ABOUT THESE MEETINGS
AND CERTAINLY MYSELF AND ANY
OTHERS IF THERE WAS ANY
SUBSEQUENT FOLLOW-UP IN TERMS OF
THESE ISSUES BEING RAISED WITH
ANY OF THE PARTIES IN THE
FUTURE.
>> HE DID THINKING IN RESPONSE
ABOUT HOW HE TOOK THAT MEETING
OR HOW HE WOULD DESCRIBE IT OR
RAISING CONCERNS ABOUT WHAT YOU
TOLD HIM THAT TOOK PLACE?
>> NO, HE LISTEN VERY CAREFULLY
TO THE INFORMATION.
>> BACK TO THAT
, WHO IS IN THAT
WITH THE UKRAINIANS?
>> AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND
SONDLAND IN A COUPLE OF PEOPLE I
THINK  FROM THE STATE DEPARTMENT
IF THE GROUP HAD BEEN THERE TOO.
I HONESTLY CAN'T REMEMBER.
>>
AMBASSADOR VOLKER WAS THERE.
>> HE WAS THERE BUT HE DID NOT
SPEAK  DURING THAT MEETING AND I
HEARD HIS DEPOSITION AND I READ
HIS DEPOSITION WHERE HE DIDN'T
REALLY RECALL THAT ENCOUNTER AND
HE DIDN'T REALLY SPEAK.
>> I THINK YOU DESCRIBED IT AS
HE WAS TALKING ABOUT HOW HE HAD
AN AGREEMENT WITH THE CHIEF OF
STAFF AND IF THEY WERE GOING
FORWARD WITH THE INVESTIGATIONS.
WHILE THIS WAS TAKING PLACE, HOW
ARE THE UKRAINIANS REACTING TO
WHAT WAS BEING SAID.
>> AT THE TIME, HE WAS QUITE
IMPRESSIVE
IN HIS AIDE WAS WITH HIM AND HIS
AIDE WAS SITTING NEXT TO HIM AND
ORIGINALLY IT WAS AMBASSADOR
BOLTON
AND FROM TIME TO TIME, HE WAS
WHISPERING TO HIM. I HAD NOT MET
HIM BEFORE SO I WAS NOT SURE HOW
THAT HIS ENGLISH WAS OR IF YOU
COULD REFLECT ON THAT AS TO
WHETHER HE WAS HAVING POINTS OF
CLARIFICATION.
>> HE UNDERSTOOD WHAT WAS
HAPPENING.
>> I WASN'T ENTIRELY SURE IF HE
WAS FOLLOWING ALL THE
BACK-AND-FORTH.
>> I THINK HE WAS MORE ALARMED
AT THE FACT THAT THIS WAS JUST
BACK-AND-FORTH  WITH THE MEETING
AND THEY VERY MUCH WANTED TO
HAVE THIS MEETING IN THE U. S.
OFFICIALS WERE ARGUING ABOUT THE
MEETING IN FRONT OF HIM AND THAT
WAS OBVIOUSLY VERY UNCOMFORTABLE
FOR HIM.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANY FOLLOW-UP TO
THAT?
>> I WANT TO ADD THAT HE DOES
SPEAK PERFECT ENGLISH BUT
SOMETIMES DOES ASK FOR
CLARIFICATION.
>> I YIELD BACK.
>> BEFORE I TURN TO OUR
WITNESSES, I WANTED TO SAY TO MY
DEMOCRATIC COLLEAGUES, AND A
SINGLE A MEMBER OF THIS
COMMITTEE HAS SAID RUSSIA DID
NOT MEDDLE IN THE 2016 ELECTION
AND AS THE RANKING MEMBER
STATED, WE PUBLISHED A REPORT
FOCUSED ON RUSSIAN ACTIVE
MEASURES IN 2016 WITH POLICY
RECOMMENDATIONS AS TO HOW TO
STRENGTHEN THE CYBER RESILIENCY
AND ELECTION SECURITY
. I MYSELF HAVE WORKED WITH
MEMBERS OF THIS VERY COMMITTEE
ON THIS ISSUE BUT ALSO ON THE
SERVICES COMMITTEE SO TO HAVE
THE DEMOCRATIC COLLEAGUES SAY
THESE UNTRUTHFUL STATEMENTS
REEKS OF POLITICAL DESPERATION
IN THEIR CONTINUED OBSESSION TO
MANIPULATE MAINSTREAM MEDIA BUT
THE GOOD NEWS IS THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND THAT THIS IS
BEEN A PROCESS FROM THE START AT
THE DEMOCRATIC ORDINATION
IN THE ASSESSMENT AND A
STUNNINGLY UNPRECEDENTED
CLOSED-DOOR PROCESS AND MAJORITY
OF MEMBERS AND TO THE PRESS AND
TO THE PEOPLE STARTING THIS
INQUIRY WITHOUT TAKING A VOTE IN
THEM AND FINALLY FORCED TO TAKE
THE VOTE, IT IS BIPARTISAN
OPPOSITION.
WITH FOUR MINUTES OF, I WILL
TURN TO THE TWO WITNESSES. THANK
YOU BOTH FOR YOUR SERVICE AND
THANK YOU DR. HILL FOR YOUR
COMMENTS ON THE PERSONAL
ATTACKS. I WANTED TO ASK YOU
EACH FACT BASED QUESTIONS. DR.
HILL, YOU TESTIFIED THAT YOU
HANDED OVER YOUR DUTIES ON JULY
15 AND THAT YOU PHYSICALLY LEFT
THE WHITE HOUSE
ON JULY 19, CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THAT MEANS BY THE TIME THERE
WAS THE  LIGHT 26 CALL WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY, YOU WERE NO LONGER ON
THE NFC, CORRECT?
>> I WAS STILL TECHNICALLY ON
THE PAYROLL UNTIL THE END OF
AUGUST BUT I WAS NOT PHYSICALLY
IN THE BUILDING AND I HAD
HEATHER OVER MY DUTIES.
>> YOU ARE NOT ON THE CALL?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> YOU DO NOT PARTICIPATE
IN PREPARATION OR COORDINATION
OF SETTING UP THE CALL?
>> NOT FOR THAT CALL BUT LET ME
SAY FOR THE RECORD  THAT THERE
HAD BEEN A LONG ANTICIPATION AND
THERE WOULD EVENTUALLY BE A
CALL. THERE WAS A PACKAGE THAT
WAS PREPARED IN ADVANCE BUT I
CANNOT SAY HOW MUCH OF THAT
PACKAGE HAVE BEEN PREPARED WITH
THE INAUGURATION IF IT WAS THEN
USED WITH THE BASIC MATERIAL OF
THAT CALL. I DID TAKE PART IN
THAT BUT I DID NOT TAKE PART IN
ANY PREPARATION IN SPECIFIC.
>> THE FIRST TIME YOU READ THE
TRANSCRIPT OF THE CALL  WAS WHEN
IT WAS RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> MR. HOLMES, I WANTED TO TURN
TO YOU AND GOOD TO SEE YOU
AGAIN. THANK YOU FOR MENTIONING
THE BIPARTISAN DELEGATION THAT I
LEAD WITH MY FRIENDS IN ANTHONY
BROWN FOR MARYLAND. WE DO HAVE
AN INFORMATIVE VISIT WHERE WE
HIGHLIGHTED THE BIPARTISAN
CONGRESSIONAL SUPPORT WITH THE
IMPORTANCE OF COUNTERING RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION AND WE DISCUSSED THE
IMPORTANCE OF DEFENSIVE AID
WHICH IS AN IMPORTANT DETERRENT
TO RUSSIA AND I WANT TO
HIGHLIGHT ON THE RECORD, I KNOW
THIS HAS BEEN ASKED IN THE
JAPANESE WERE PROVIDED BY THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION AND NOT
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION, CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT AND I THINK
WE  EXPERIENCED
ALL THE IMPORTANCE OF THE
SECURITY ASSISTANTS.
>> WHICH I STRONGLY SUPPORT.
AGAIN, THANK YOU FOR BEING A
HOST ON THAT.  DR. HILL, TURNING
BACK TO YOU, THERE HAS BEEN
DISCUSSION OF SCHEDULING
MEETINGS BETWEEN PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AND PRESIDENT TRUMP
AND YOU TESTIFIED THAT THERE WAS
HESITANCY TO SCHEDULE THIS
MEETING UNTIL AFTER THE
UKRAINIAN ELECTION, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THAT IS BECAUSE THERE WAS
SPECULATION IN UKRAINE AND
OUTSIDE OF UKRAINE THAT
ZELENSKY MIGHT NOT BE ABLE TO
GET THE MAJORITY TO FORM A
CABINET, CORRECT?
>> I IS CORRECT.
>> YOU ALSO TESTIFIED THAT THE
HESITANCY TO SCHEDULE THIS
MEETING WAS BASED ON BROADER
CONCERNS  RELATED TO
ANTICORRUPTION REFORMS AND THIS
WAS IN SPECIFIC RELATION WITH
THE OWNER OF THE TV COMPANY THAT
THE PROGRAM HAVE BEEN A PART OF.
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> DOWN TO THE KEY FACTS, I
WANTED TO ASK BOTH OF YOU THREE
KEY QUESTIONS. THE FACT OF THE
MATTER IS UKRAINE ULTIMATELY DID
RECEIVE THE EIGHT, CORRECT?
>> ULTIMATELY.
>>
CORRECT, ULTIMATELY.
>> THERE WAS NO INVESTIGATION
INTO THE BIDENS, CORRECT?
>>
WOULD THEY DO NOT OPEN
INVESTIGATION INTO THE BIDENS.
>> CORRECT.
>> THERE WAS IN FACT A MEETING
BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AT THE UN, IS
THAT CORRECT?
>> THE PRESIDENT INVITED
ZELENSKY TO THE OVAL OFFICE ON A
DATE AND DETERMINE THAT HAS NOT
HAPPENED.
>> THEY MET AT THE UN?
>> THEY DID BUT ON THE OVAL
OFFICE.
>> BUT THEY DID HAVE A MEETING
IN THE UN.
>> THEY DID.
>> THANK YOU, I YIELD BACK.
>> DR. HILL, I THINK A LOT OF
AMERICANS WERE SCRATCHING THEIR
HEADS YESTERDAY AS  AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND TESTIFIED THAT ON SOME
SUMMER NIGHT,  HE CALLS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
AND JUST AS BROADLY WHAT DO YOU
WANT FROM UKRAINE AND THE
PRESIDENT SAYS THERE IS NO QUID
PRO QUO.
LIKE BEING PULLED OVER FOR
SPEEDING AND BEING ASKED HOW
FAST WE ARE GOING AND SAYING I
DIDN'T ROB THE BANK. I DIDN'T
ROB THE BANK. YOUR TESTIMONY
TODAY IS THAT ON JULY 10 OF THIS
YEAR, YOU TOLD ONE OF THE
PRESIDENTS LAWYERS THAT YOU HAD
CONCERNS THAT A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING
WAS LINKED TO INVESTIGATIONS. IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> IS CORRECT. THAT WAS BASED ON
WHAT  SONDLAND SAID  IN THE WAR
ROOM.
>> THE LAWYERS HAD KNOWLEDGE
THAT THERE IS A LEAST CONCERN BY
PRESIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE
LINKAGE, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> WE ARE TRYING TO ACCOUNT FOR
ALL OF THE
PRESIDENTS MEN. DO YOU HAVE THAT
SAME CONCERN WHEN YOU SAW THE
EMAILS AND PEOPLE THAT WERE
OUTSIDE THE CHANNELS THAT YOU
HAVE BEEN WORKING ON? I WANT TO
WALK YOU THROUGH SOMETHING YOU
TOLD US EARLIER. YOU SAID YOU
HAVE EVIDENCE THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP BELIEVES THAT WAS THE UK
DIRECTOR, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> HE WAS THE ONLY PERSON I
COULD
THINK OF.
>> AND PRIOR TO WORKING FOR THE
SECURITY COUNSEL 2017-2018
WORKED FOR RANKING MEMBER NUNES
, RIGHT?
>> I ONLY FIGURED THAT OUT AFTER
THE FACT. I WONDERED WHAT WAS
BEING ASKED ABOUT HIM AND I
LOOKED IT UP.
>> YOU QUESTIONED US ON THE
DANGERS OF MINT MEMBERS OF
THIS CAN COMMITTEE PEDDLING ANY
UKRAINIAN CONSPIRACY THEORIES
THAT COULD BENEFIT RUSSIA AND I
WANT TO ASK YOU IF YOU HAVE
HEARD THE NAME LEV PARNAS, OF
UKRAINE, SOMEONE IN THIS
INVESTIGATION WHO WAS
INFLUENCING PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
RUDY GIULIANI ABOUT SOME THE
DEBUNKED CONSPIRACY THEORIES
THAT YOU
REFERENCED EARLIER.
>> I HAVE HEARD HIS NAME.
>> ARE YOU AWARE HE WAS INDICTED
ON OCTOBER 10 FOR MAKING FOR
CONTRIBUTIONS TO REPUBLICANS IN
U.S. ELECTIONS.
>> I'M AWARE OF THOSE REPORTS,
YES.
>> ARE YOU AWARE OF YESTERDAY'S
DAILY BEAST A STORY REPORTING
THE INDICTED UKRAINIAN HAS BEEN
WORKING WITH THE RANKING MEMBER
RANKING MEMBER NUNES  ON HIS
OVERSEAS INVESTIGATION?
>> I'M NOT AWARE OF THAT.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN ASKING THEM IS
CONSENT TO PUT INTO THE DAILY B
STORY ABOUT RANKING MEMBER NUNES
INVESTIGATIONS FROM YESTERDAY,
FIRST TWO PARAGRAPHS READING
LET'S HARNESS
RUDY GIULIANI ARRANGE CALLS FOR
DEVIN NUNES. A DEREK HARVEY
PARTICIPATED IN THE MEETING,
WHICH WERE ARRANGED TO HELP HIS
INVESTIGATIVE WORK. THEY DO NOT
SPECIFY WHAT THOSE
INVESTIGATIONS
AND TELL INTEL. MR. CHAIRMAN YOU
BEEN FALSELY ACCUSED THROUGHOUT
THESE PROCEEDINGS BY THE RANKING
MEMBER AS BEING A QUOTE UNQUOTE
FACT WITNESS. NOW, IF THE STORY
IS CORRECT, THE RANKING MEMBER
MAY HAVE BEEN PROJECTING. IN
FACT, HE
MAY BE THE FACT WITNESS THAT IS
WORKING WITH INDICTED
INDIVIDUALS AROUND OUR
INVESTIGATION. I WANT TO GO WHAT
TO WHAT THIS IS REALLY ALL
ABOUT. FIRST, IT IS YOUR
CREDIBILITY,
MR. HOLMES. CAN YOU TELL US AND
CONFIRM IN 2014 YOU RECEIVED THE
WILLIAM RIVKIN CONSENT AWARD
FROM THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?
AND THAT
WAS FOR
DISSENT YOU BROUGHT UP AGAINST
AN ADMINISTRATION POLICY IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> YES.
>> CONGRATULATIONS AND THANK YOU
FOR SPEAKING UP IN THE WAY THAT
YOU DID. WHILE WE ARE HERE ABOUT
IS WHAT YOU'RE WORKING ON IN
UKRAINE. I WANT YOU TO TAKE A
LOOK AT THE PICTURE. WHO DO YOU
SEE ANY FOREGROUND OF THAT
PHOTO?
>> PRESIDENT ZELENSKY.
>> THAT IS A PHOTOGRAPH MAY
2019 WHERE NEWLY ELECTED
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  VISITED THE
EASTERN UKRAINE REGION. IT WAS
HIS FIRST VISIT TO THE FRONT
LINES AS PRESIDENT. CAN
YOU JUST TELL AMERICANS WHY IT
IS SO IMPORTANT THAT OUR HARD
EARNED TAX PAYING DOLLARS HELPED
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND THE MEN
STANDING BESIDE HIM FIGHT
AGAINST RUSSIA IN THIS HOT WAR?
>>
ABSOLUTELY SIR. PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY WAS ELECTED ON
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY .
TO DEFEND UKRAINIAN INTEREST.
VISIT ANY TIME WHEN UKRAINIANS
ARE DEFENDING THEIR SOVEREIGNTY,
THEIR INTEGRITY ON UKRAINIAN
SOIL FROM RUSSIAN BACKED
SOLDIERS WHO ARE ATTACKING THEM.
THEY SAID 14,000 UKRAINIAN LIVES
LOST IN THIS WAR SO FAR, AS I
MENTIONED A FEW THIS
WEEK ALREADY. THIS IS A HOT WAR,
NOT A FROZEN CONFLICT. PEOPLE
ARE SHOOTING EACH OTHER AND
DYING, INJURED EVERY SINGLE
WEEK. DESPITE THE ONGOING WAR,
THEY ARE STILL TRYING TO PURSUE
PEACE. PRESIDENT ZELENSKY RIGHT
NOW IS TRYING TO PURSUE A SUMMIT
MEETING  WITH PRESIDENT PUTIN IN
ORDER TO TRY TO BRING THIS WAR
TO A CONCLUSION SO THEY CAN MOVE
ON WITH ALL THE DIFFICULT THINGS
THEY NEED TO DO IN TERMS OF
BUILDING THE ECONOMY AND
REFORMING AND WHATNOT. ONE OTHER
THING SIR, IF I MAY, MR. TURNER
HAS ADJUSTED EARLIER THAT I HAD
SOMEHOW EMBARRASSED PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY.  I HAVE THE DEEPEST
RESPECT FOR PRESIDENT ZELENSKY.
THIS IS A GUY, JEWISH
BACKGROUND, POST-SOVIET
INDUSTRIAL SUBURB IN
SOUTHERN UKRAINE WHO MADE
HIMSELF ONE OF THE MOST POPULAR
ENTERTAINERS IN THE COUNTRY AND,
SOMEHOW, GOT ELECTED PRESIDENT
AND HE WILL NOT MISS THAT
OPPORTUNITY. THIS IS A
UKRAINIAN PATRIOT. THIS IS A
TOUGH GUY. FRANKLY, HE WITHSTOOD
A LOT OF PRESSURE FOR A VERY
LONG TIME. AND, HE DIDN'T GIVE
THAT INTERVIEW. I HAVE THE
DEEPEST RESPECT FOR HIM, THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE AND ALSO THE
DEEPEST RESPECT FOR HIM, THEY
HAVE CHOSEN HIM TO HELP DELIVER
THE FULL MEASURE OF PROMISE OF
THE REVOLUTION OF DIGNITY AND I
THINK HE MERITS ALL OF OUR
RESPECT.
>> THANK YOU. DETERMINE ASKING
HIM IS CONSENT TO ENTER THE MAY
27th PHOTOGRAPH PRINTED ON THE
SCREEN INTO THE RECORD.
>> WITHOUT OBJECTION.
>>
MR. HOLMES, FOR YEARS OF SERVICE
UNDER THIS COUNTRY I APPRECIATE
YOU BEING HERE TODAY. THROUGHOUT
THIS PROCESS, I HAVE SAID THAT I
WANT TO LEARN THE FACTS SO WE
CAN GET TO
THE TRUTH. WHY ARE WE HERE?
BECAUSE OF TWO THINGS THAT
OCCURRED DURING THE PRESIDENT'S
JULY 25th PHONE CALL WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY.  THE USE OF
THE PHRASE "DO AS A FAVOR
THOUGH" IN REFERENCE TO THE 2016
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION AND THE
MENTION OF THE WORD BIDEN. I
BELIEVE BOTH STATEMENTS WERE
INAPPROPRIATE, MISGUIDED FOREIGN
POLICY AND CERTAINLY NOT HOW THE
EXECUTIVE CURRENT OR IN THE
FUTURE SHOULD HANDLE SUCH A
CALL. OVER THE COURSE OF THESE
HEARINGS, THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
HAVE LEARNED ABOUT A SERIES OF
EVENTS THAT, IN MY VIEW, HAVE
UNDERMINED OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
AND UNDERCUT UKRAINE, A KEY
PARTNER ON THE FRONT LINES
AGAINST RUSSIAN AGGRESSION. WE
HEARD OF
U.S. OFFICIALS CARRYING
UNCORRELATED, CONFUSING, AND
CONFLICTING MESSAGES THAT
CREATED DOUBT AND UNCERTAINTY IN
KIEV ANYTIME THEY KNEW
REFORMIST DEMONSTRATION HAD JUST
TAKEN OFFICE AND WAS READY TO
FIGHT CORRUPTION AND WORK WITH
US TO ADVANCE THE U.S.
OBJECTIVES. I DISAGREE WITH THIS
SORT OF BUNDLING
FOREIGN POLICY. THROUGH THESE
HEARINGS MY COLLEAGUES HAVE
UNWITTINGLY UNDERMINED IT
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT BY
SUGGESTING IT IS SUBSERVIENT TO
THE UNITED STATES AND WITHOUT
THE UNITED STATES, THEY WOULD
NOT BE ABLE TO
FUNCTION. UKRAINIANS ARE IN A
HOT WAR WITH RUSSIA, AND THEY
ARE HOLDING THEIR OWN. WE COULD
BENEFIT FROM THE EXPERIENCE OF
THE UKRAINIANS, NOT THE OTHER
WAY AROUND. WHILE I THOUGHT THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE WOULD
ACTUALLY BE ENGAGED IN OVERSIGHT
OF THE INTELLIGENCE AND NATIONAL
SECURITY COMMUNITIES, AND
FORTUNATELY WE ARE NOT. WE
ARE HERE WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
WANTING TO SERIOUS
CONSTITUTIONAL DUTIES WE HAVE AS
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS THE
IMPEACHMENT AND REMOVAL OF A
PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES, FOR
THE PAST FEW WEEKS, WE HAVE
LEARNED A FEW THINGS. THE
OFFICIAL JULY 25th CALL HAVE
MANY DIFFERENT OPINIONS ON
WHETHER THE CALL WAS CONCERNING
AND JUST BECAUSE VICE PRESIDENT
BIDEN IS RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT
THAT DOES NOT MEAN CORRUPTION
RELATED TO BURISMA, UKRAINE IS
NOT LARGEST NATIONAL  GAS
COMPANY AND THE AMERICANS TIES
TO IT, ARE
NOT CONCERNING. WE HAVEN'T HEARD
FROM RUDY GIULIANI, WE HAVE NOT
HEARD FROM HUNTER BIDEN, I WOULD
LIKE TO KNOW MORE ABOUT THEIR
ACTIVITIES. DESPITE PROMISES OF
FROM CHAIRMAN SCHIFF, WE HAVE
ALSO NOT HEARD  ON THE
WHISTLEBLOWER. SOMETHING THAT
CAN OCCUR IN A CLOSED SETTING
WITHOUT VIOLATING
HIS/HER ANONYMITY. WE NEED TO
UNDERSTAND THE MOTIVATIONS AND
LEVEL OF COORDINATION THAT
HAPPENED PRIOR TO HIS/HER
SUBMISSION OF
THE COMPLAINT. THE PAST FEW
WEEKS, EVEN TODAY IT HAS BEEN
REITERATED IN 2017 THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION MADE THE DECISION
TO PROVIDE LEGAL DEFENSE OF AID
TO UKRAINE AFTER THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION REFUSED TO DO SO.
UKRAINE IS RECEIVING ALL THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE. PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY IS UNDERTAKEN
SIGNIFICANT ANTICORRUPTION
EFFORTS INCLUDING ELIMINATING
ANY POETRY PARLIAMENTARY
IMMUNITY. AND, UNDER PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY'S LEADERSHIP WE HAVE
FINALLY SEEN  SOME PROGRESS TO
ENDING THE RUSSIAN OCCUPATION OF
EASTERN UKRAINE. WHERE DOES THIS
LEAVE US? AN
IMPEACHABLE EVENTS OFFENSE
SHOULD BE RAPPELLING,
OVERWHELMINGLY CLEAR, AND
UNAMBIGUOUS AND NOT SOMETHING TO
BE RUSHED OR
TAKEN LIGHTLY. I HAVE NOT HEARD
EVIDENCE PROVING THE PRESENT
COMMITTED BRIBERY
OR EXTORTION. I ALSO REJECT THE
NOTION THAT HOLDING THIS VIEW
MEANS SUPPORTING ALL THE FOREIGN
POLICY CHOICES WE HAVE BEEN
HEARING ABOUT OVER THESE LAST
FEW WEEKS. PARAPHRASE
TIM MORRISON, EVERY DAY THE
NATIONAL CONVERSATION ON UKRAINE
IS FOCUS ON IMPEACHMENT, NOT THE
CONFLICT, NOT THE ILLEGAL
OCCUPATION, NOT THE NEED FOR
REFORMS IN UKRAINE'S GOVERNMENT
AND ECONOMY, IT IS A DAY THAT WE
ARE NOT FOCUSED ON OUR SHARED
NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST WITH
KIEV.  I HOPE WE WON'T LET THIS
VERY PARTISAN PROCESS KEEP US
FROM AGREEING ON HOW A FREE AND
PROSPEROUS UKRAINE IS IMPORTANT
TO THE SECURITY OF UKRAINIAN
PEOPLE, THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA, AND THE REST OF THE
WORLD. MR. CHAIRMAN, BEFORE I
GET BACK MY TIME, I LIKE TO MAKE
A STATEMENT, HAD THIS COMMITTEE
BEEN GIVEN PROPER NOTICE AS OF
ACQUIRED BY HOUSE RULE 11 A
BUSINESS MEETING WAS TO FOLLOW
LAST NIGHT HEARING AND HAD MR.
CONWAY'S POINT OF ORDER BEEN
APPROPRIATELY RECOGNIZED I WOULD
HAVE VOTED NO ON THE COMMITTEE'S
FIRST MOTION TO TABLE DURING
LAST NIGHT'S IMPROMPTU MEETING.
I YIELD BACK  THE BALANCE OF MY
TIME.
>>
MR. CASTRO?
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TESTIMONY
TODAY. I WILL SAY, BECAUSE I DO
NOT THINK IT SHOULD GO
UNMENTIONED THE CHARACTERIZATION
A FEW MINUTES AGO BY ONE OF MY
PUBLIC AND COLLEAGUES OF THIS
PROCEEDING, I THINK, WAS VILE,
IRRESPONSIBLE, AND DANGEROUS.
AND, I WANT TO REMIND US WHY WE
ARE HERE. BECAUSE, SOMEBODY IN
THE GOVERNMENT, A WHISTLEBLOWER,
FELT IT WAS IMPORTANT ENOUGH TO
GET OTHER PEOPLE IN GOVERNMENT
THE TENSION THAT THE PRESIDENT
MAY HAVE COMMITTED A WRONG ACT.
WE HAVE NOW HEARD AND SEEN
SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE THAT THE
PRESIDENT, IN FACT, TRADED A
POLITICAL FAVOR FOR RESOURCES.
THE MOST DAMNING WORDS COME FROM
NO ONE ELSE BUT THE PRESIDENT
HIMSELF. ON THAT PHONE CALL WITH
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT. WHEN HE
ASKED FOR A FAVOR, HE MENTIONS
INVESTIGATIONS, HE MENTIONS THE
BIDENS AND
BURISMA.  HOWEVER, AS MR. HOLMES
HAS TESTIFIED, MR. HOLMES ALSO
OVERHEARD THE PRESIDENT SPEAKING
TO HIS HAND-PICKED AMBASSADOR,
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND, ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS.  MR. HOLMES IS
ALSO SAID THAT IN THE OFFICE,
EVERYBODY KNEW OR MANY PEOPLE
KNEW AT LEAST, THAT THERE
WAS AN INVESTIGATION OR THAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTED AN
INVESTIGATION OF THE BIDENS. IN
ADDITION, OTHER MICK MULVANEY
AND RUDY GIULIANI HAD NOT BECOME
FOR THIS COMMITTEE, THEY HAVE
BOTH SPOKEN PUBLICLY ON THE
ISSUE OF INVESTIGATIONS. NICK
MULVANEY, THE PRESIDENT'S CHIEF
OF STAFF, THE PERSON WHO USUALLY
WORKS WITH THE PRESIDENT THE
MOST DAY IN AND DAY OUT WENT IN
FRONT OF THE WHITE HOUSE PRESS
CORPS AND BASICALLY ADMITTED
THAT AN INVESTIGATION HAD
SOMETHING TO DO WITH HOLDING
THE AID. IN THIS PROCESS WAS
POLITICIZED, RUDY GIULIANI, THE
PRESIDENT'S
PERSONAL LAWYER ALSO ESSENTIALLY
ADMITTED THAT THESE
INVESTIGATIONS WERE AN ISSUE. HE
SAID THAT HE THINKS HE DID
NOTHING WRONG BECAUSE HE WAS
WORKING AT THE DIRECTION OF
THE PRESIDENT. SO, WE HAVE SEEN
SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE AND HEARD
SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE OF
WRONGDOING BY THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES. THIS CONGRESS
WILL HAVE TO CONTINUE TO TAKE UP
THIS VERY IMPORTANT ISSUE TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. MY CONCERN
TODAY IS ALSO, I FEEL AS THOUGH
THE WRONGDOING MAY HAVE SPREAD
BEYOND THE PRESIDENT AND INTO
OTHERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.
I WANT TO ASK YOU A FEW
QUESTIONS ABOUT THAT. BEFORE I
DO, I WOULD LIKE
THE CHAIRMAN TO ENTER TWO
ARTICLES INTO THE RECORD, IF I
COULD. ONE IS HEADLINED " AFTER
BOOST FROM PERRY, BACKERS GOT
HUGE GAS DEAL IN UKRAINE" AND
THE OTHER ONE IS TITLED "WALL
STREET JOURNAL, FEDERAL
PROSECUTORS PROBE GIULIANI'S
LINKS TO UKRAINIAN
ENERGY PRODUCTS." THANK YOU
CHAIRMAN. MR. HOLMES YOU
INDICATED A SECRETARY VERY PERRY
WHEN HE WAS IN UKRAINE, HAD
PRIVATE MEETINGS WITH
UKRAINIANS. BEFORE HE HAD THIS
PRIVATE MEETINGS, IN A MEETING
WITH OTHERS, INCLUDING YOURSELF
I BELIEVE, HE HAD PRESENTED A
LIST OF AMERICAN ADVISORS FOR
THE UKRAINE ENERGY SECTOR. DO
YOU KNOW WHO WAS ON THAT LIST?
>> SIR, I DO NOT SEE THE NAMES
ON THE LIST MYSELF.
>> DO YOU KNOW IF ALEX CRANBURY
AND MICHAEL BLASER WERE ON THAT
LIST?
>> I HAVE SINCE HEARD THAT
MICHAEL BLASER IS ON THE LIST.
>> BEFORE SECRETARY PERRY DID
THIS, WE ALSO HEARD TESTIMONY
BEFORE THAT AMBASSADOR SONLAND
ALSO HAD A PRIVATE MEETING WITH
SOMEBODY? HOW UNUSUAL WE WAS A
BEFORE THESE GUYS SHOWED UP FOR
FOLKS, DIPLOMATS ARE TO SPEAK,
OR U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS,
WHO HAVE PRIVATE MEETINGS WHERE
THEY INSIST THAT NOBODY ELSE BE
IN
THE ROOM?
>> VERY RARE, ALMOST NEVER.
>> OKAY. AND, I WANT TO ASK YOU,
ALSO. ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT PRESIDENT PRECEDENT
THAT WE SET. I KNOW YOUR BOTH
HERE AS FACT WITNESSES WE ARE
ALSO PUBLIC SERVANTS IS PROBABLY
SERPENTS FOR THIS COUNTRY. WHAT
THIS WITH THAT, SETTING ASIDE A
LITTLE TROUBLE. IF THE CONGERS
ALLOWS A PRESIDENT OF UNITED
STATES NOW OR EVER
TO ASK A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT,
HEAD OF STATE TO INVESTIGATE A
POLITICAL RIVAL WHAT PRECEDENT
DOES THAT SET FOR AMERICAN
DIPLOMACY, FOR THE SAFETY OF
AMERICANS OVERSEAS, AND FOR THE
FUTURE OF OUR COUNTRY?
>> THAT IS A VERY BAD PRECEDENT.
>> VERY BAD PRECEDENT, AND IF
THAT WERE THE CASE, I WOULD
RAISE OBJECTION.
>> THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU CHAIR, I WANT TO
RETURN THE FAVOR AND YIELD TO MY
COLLEAGUE,
CONGRESSMAN CONAWAY.
>> DR. , I DON'T THINK THERE ARE
A LOT OF QUESTIONS THAT ONE OF
PUTIN'S PRIMARY OBJECTIVES IN
THE UNITED STATES  IS TO FERMENT
UNREST WITHIN OUR COUNTRY, TO
CAUSE US
TO HAVE LOST CONFIDENCE IN OUR
ELECTIONS AND THOSE TYPES OF
THINGS. THERE IS TENSION THOUGH.
CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS IS THE
WAY WE SHOULD. PLAYING INTO
PUTIN'S HANDS. AS AN EXAMPLE,
WHILE
I DISAGREE WITH WHAT WE ARE
DOING HERE, IT IS UNDER OUR
CONSTITUTION AND MY COLLEAGUES
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE AISLE
BELIEVE THEY ARE FUNCTIONING
UNDERNEATH THE CONSTITUTION.
THIS ISSUE IS VERY DIVISIVE
WITHIN OUR COUNTRY. CONTINUING
TO PUSH
THAT WAY I THINK IT PLAYS INTO
PUTIN'S HANDS INDIFFERENTLY.
NOTHING WE CAN DO ABOUT THAT.
BUT THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS WE
CAN DO AS INDIVIDUALS THAT WOULD
NOT PLAY INTO HIS HANDS AND ONE
WOULD BE THE LOSER IN THE 2016
ELECTION HAS FOR THREE YEARS
CONTINUED TO ARGUE THAT BECAUSE
SHE WON THE
POPULAR VOTE, THAT SHE AND HER
FRIENDS WON THE POPULAR VOTE,
SOMEHOW THE ELECTION WAS
INAPPROPRIATE AND WE SHOULD NOT
TRUST IT. THAT THE TWHIRL
COLLEGE THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE
VICTORY SHOULDN'T BE
ACKNOWLEDGED. DOES THAT HELP YOU
TO PUTIN THAT OUR ELECTIONS ARE
SOMEHOW RIGGED, AND SHOULD BE
TRUSTED?
>> YES, IT DOES.
>> SO THE, WOULD YOU AGREE WITH
ME THAT THE IS RT PUTIN'S
PROPAGANDA MACHINE IN THE U.S.?
>> I WOULD.
>> IS APPROPRIATE FOR THE RT\ TO
AFFECT PUBLIC POLICY ON THE
NATION AS AN EXAMPLE THAT THERE
BE A LONG SERIES OF
ADVERTISEMENTS OR ON GOINGS
ON RT GOING AGAINST FRACKING,
SAYING IT IS BAD AND TRYING TO
AFFECT PUBLIC POLICY IN THE
UNITED STATES, IS THAT
APPROPRIATE USE OR SHOULD
AMERICANS BE PAYING ATTENTION TO
THAT?
>> IN THE TENT THAT AMERICANS
SHOULD BE PAYING ATTENTION TO
THE RT, ANOTHER WAY TO PROPAGATE
THIS INFORMATION I WASN'T QUITE
SURE WHAT YOU
MEANT.
>> FRACKING IS A CONTROVERSIAL
ISSUE WITH OUR NATION IF WE DID
AWAY WITH TRACKING THE UNITED
STATES WOULD NOT BE IN A
POSITION TODAY TO DOMINATE OIL
PRODUCTION WITHIN THE WORLD AND
WILL PLAY INTO STRENGTHENING
PUTIN'S HANDS WITH RESPECT. IT
IS CORRECT AND I'D LIKE TO POINT
OUT THAT IN 2011, NOVEMBER 2011
I SAT NEXT TO VLADIMIR PUTIN
AFTER A CONFERENCE IN WHICH HE
MADE PRECISELY THAT POINT. IT
WAS THE FIRST TIME HE HAD DONE
SO TO A GROUP OF AMERICAN
JOURNALISTS AND EXPERTS WHO WERE
BROUGHT TO SOMETHING CALLED THE
DISCUSSION CLUB. WE STARTED IN
2011 MAKING IT CLEAR THAT HE SAW
AMERICAN FRACKING AS A
GREAT THREAT TO RUSSIAN
INTEREST, WHO WERE AWESTRUCK BY
HOW MUCH HE STRESSED THIS ISSUE.
SINCE 2011 AND SINCE OUR
PARTICULAR JUNCTION PUTIN HAS
MADE A BIG DEAL.
>> SO AMERICANS PAY ATTENTION TO
RT AND ARE MISDIAGNOSED OR
MISSED BY WHATEVER PROPAGANDA HE
HAS SET
OUT. ARE. MR. HOLMES IN YOUR
ROLE YOU ARE PRIVILEGED TO AN
AWFUL LOT OF STUFF. OFFICIAL
THINGS. THINGS THAT ARE BEST
KEPT BETWEEN YOU AND THE
OFFICIAL FOLKS THAT YOU DEAL
WITH IS THERE AN EXPECTATION
AMONG THE PRINCIPLES YOU
REPRESENT THAT YOU WILL EXERCISE
SOME DISCRETION IN WHAT YOU
SHARE WITH OTHERS ABOUT WHAT
GOES ON?
>> YES SIR.
>> IN YOUR DEPOSITION, YOU MADE,
WELL, FIRST OFF, WE HAD A HARD
TIME PINNING DOWN THE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE YOU ACTUALLY HAD THIS
CONVERSATION WITH ABOUT THE
CONVERSATION THAT YOU OVERHEARD.
THE AMBASSADOR HAD NO
EXPECTATION
OF PRIVACY. LUSTING AROUND, WHAT
IS DONE IS DONE BUT CANNOT
FIGURE OUT HOW MANY PEOPLE YOU
SHARE THAT INFORMATION WITH. I
WOULD ARGUE THAT INFORMATION IS
UNFLATTERING TO THE PRESIDENT,
UNFLATTERING TO THE AMBASSADOR.
AND, THAT, YOUR DISCRETION IS AT
ODDS HERE. YOUR TESTIMONY, YOUR
DEPOSITION SAID WITH FOLKS THAT
YOU THOUGHT WOULD FIND IT
INTERESTING. I'D ARGUE THAT
EVERYBODY IN THE BACK ROW WOULD
FIND IT INTERESTING BUT I DON'T
KNOW THAT IS NECESSARILY
CRITERIA. ON A GOING FORWARD
BASIS CAN YOU ARTICULATE IN THE
FUTURE WHEN YOU'RE PRIVILEGED TO
CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES THAT WOULD
BE EMBARRASSING TO THE PRINCIPAL
THAT IF IT IS
OFFICIAL YOU SAY TO THE
AMBASSADOR THAT IS FINE BUT
FOLKS OUTSIDE THE EMBASSY OR
EVEN WITHIN THE EMBASSY TO WHO
DO NOT HAVE A NEED TO KNOW YOU
WOULD NOT REGALE THEM WITH YOUR
ACCOUNTING OF THOSE INSTANCES?
>> SIR I THINK IT WAS GORDON
SONDLAND WHO SHOWED INDISCRETION
BY HAVING A CONVERSATION THE
DUST
>> WELL.
>>
SECOND THING.
>> LET ME CLARIFY
THE QUESTION. IT IS MY QUESTION
YOU ARE EXACTLY RIGHT AND I GET
TO CLARIFY MY QUESTION TO GET
THE ANSWER AND I'M HOPEFUL I GET
IN A FEW MORE SECONDS BECAUSE OF
THE INTERRUPTION FROM THE
CHAIRMAN. HIS PATIENTS WAS GOING
THIN I'M WORKING HARD NOT TO
IRRITATE HIM AGAIN BUT IT IS
HAPPENING AGAIN. THE QUESTION IS
OF YOUR DISCRETION. GORDON
HOLMES I MEAN GORDON SONDLAND
DID NOT EXPECT PRIVACY AND GOT
THAT. BUT, YOU ARE GOING TO BE
IN ROOMS, HAVE BEEN IN ROOMS 17
YEARS WHERE PEOPLE TRUST THAT
WHATEVER WENT ON IN THAT ROOM
THAT THEY THAT YOU KEPT IN THE
OFFICIAL CHANNELS AND YOU DO NOT
SHARE ALL OF THAT INFORMATION. I
AM ASKING YOU TO ARGUE ON YOUR
OWN BEHALF THAT INTERESTING IS
NOT SOME SORT OF A CRITERIA THAT
YOU WOULD USE WHEN YOU SHARE
INFORMATION FOR MEETINGS? SIMPLE
AND STRAIGHTFORWARD QUESTION.
>> SIR I SHARE THE INFORMATION
THAT
I SHARED WITH THE RIGHT PEOPLE
WHO NEEDED TO KNOW IT. I DID NOT
SHARE ANY INFORMATION THAT
PEOPLE DIDN'T NEED TO KNOW.
>> BUT DID YOU DO USE THE WORD
INTERESTING.
>> CERTAINLY WAS INTERESTING AND
I WOULD HATE TO THINK THAT WHAT
I BROUGHT BEFORE THIS PROCESS I
SHOULDN'T HAVE DONE THAT. I HAVE
COME HERE AS YOU SUBPOENAED ME
TO SHARE WHAT I KNOW AND I HAVE
DONE THAT.
>> YOU WERE CUT OFF WHEN YOU'RE
TALKING
ABOUT MR. SONLAND'S
INDISCRETION, DID YOU WANT TO
FINISH THAT ANSWER?
>> MR. CHAIRMAN THAT IS
PATENTLY UNFAIR.
>> IT IS NOT FAIR TO INTERRUPT
THE WITNESSES.
>> BUT YOU ARE CERTAINLY WILLING
TO INTERRUPT ME DURING MY FIVE
MINUTES. YOU'RE THE ONLY PERSON
ON THE DAIS WAS UNLIMITED TIME.
YOU'RE THE ONLY ONE WAS ABUSE
THAT POWER AND YOU CONTINUE TO
DO THAT.
>> THE GENTLEMAN WILL CEASE. WE
WILL ALLOW THE WITNESS TO ANSWER
THE QUESTION IF EVEN IF THOSE
ASKING THE QUESTION DO NOT WANT
TO HEAR THE ANSWER.
>> DOES NOT APPLY TO YOU AS
WELL?
>> THE QUESTION HAS BEEN MADE
ABOUT
REGULAR IRREGULAR FOREIGN
CHANNELS MY READING OF HISTORY
IS THAT AMERICAN PRESIDENTS HAVE
ON OCCASIONS USED IN REGULAR
CHANNELS, WOULD YOU GENERALLY
AGREE?
>> YES SIR.
>> MY READING OF HISTORY IS THAT
GENERALLY SPEAKING, HOWEVER
THOSE EVEN GET A CHANNELS HAVE
BEEN CLOSELY CORRELATED WITH THE
REGULAR ONES, OR AT LEAST IN
FURTHERANCE OF AMERICAN FOREIGN
POLICY AND OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
INTEREST, WOULD YOU AGREE?
>> THAT HIS RIGHTS ARE.
>> DEEPLY THAT MR. JULIANNE
VIANI
EFFORTS RECORDED GIULIANI'S
EFFORTS RECORDED WITH THE
AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE?
>> KNOW THEY WILL.
>> WERE THE IN FURTHERANCE OF
THE AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY
ISSUANCE UNDERSTOOD?
>>
NO SIR.
>> MR. HOLMES, IF LEFT
UNCHECKED, DO YOU THINK THAT
RUSSIA WOULD EITHER BY MEANS OF
FORCE OR OTHER MALIGNED MEANS
SUBJUGATE UKRAINE, ATTEMPT TO
RENDER IT A QUITE STATE AND
OCCUPIED?
>> ABSOLUTELY SIR. IT HAS BEEN
SAID WITHOUT UKRAINE RUSSIA IS
JUST A COUNTRY BUT WITH IT IT IS
AN EMPIRE.
>> YOU KNOW, I FEEL LIKE I HAVE
BEEN TREATING TREATED TO A
GATLING GUN FIRE OF MYTH
PROPAGATION OVER THE LAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS AND IT REMINDS ME OF
THAT OLD EXPRESSION ABOUT THE
BIG LIE IF YOU TELL IT OFTEN
ENOUGH AND KEEP REPEATING IT
THAT PEOPLE WILL COME TO BELIEVE
IT. I THINK WE HAVE BEEN
SUBJECTED TO SOME OF THAT. HERE
IS A SAMPLE. THE PRESIDENT
DIDN'T SOLICIT CAMPAIGN
ASSISTANCE FROM UKRAINE IN A
CLEAR VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW.
YES
HE DID. THE PRESIDENT DID NOT
WITHHOLD VITAL MILITARY
ASSISTANCE AND FURTHERANCE OF A
SUBJECTIVE TO OBTAIN THAT
ASSISTANCE. YES,
HE DID. RUDY GIULIANI WAS ACTING
JUST ON HIS OWN, NOT AS A ROGUE.
NO HE WASN'T. THAT ALL OF THIS
IS BUSINESS AS USUAL. THIS
HAPPENS ALL THE TIME AND STEMS
FROM A
PRINCIPLED INTEREST. NO IT
ISN'T. AND NO IT WASN'T. AND,
THAT IT IS OKAY TO ATTACK
PATRIOTIC DIPLOMATS AND PUBLIC
SERVICE IF THEY STAND IN YOUR
WAY AND HAVE THE COURAGE TO
SPEAK UP. NO, IT ISN'T. THOSE
ARE JUST SOME OF THE BIG LIES.
BUT HERE IS THE BIG TRUTH, THE
PRESIDENT DID IT. HE
DID IT. WE ALL JUST CAME FROM
THE
FLOOR. AND, IT IS A MAJESTIC
CHAMBER AND IN THE FRONT OF THE
CHAMBER THERE ARE ONLY TWO
PORTRAITS. ON THE LEFT LOOKING
FORWARD IS MY FAVORITE
PRESIDENT, GEORGE WASHINGTON.
AND ON THE RIGHT IS THE MARQUIS
DE LAFAYETTE. WHO CAME TO THIS
COUNTRY TO HELP US STAND UP OUR
FLEDGLING DEMOCRACY. HERE IS
ANOTHER BIG TRUTH. WITHOUT HIS
HELP, WE PROBABLY NEVER WOULD'VE
GOTTEN OFF THE GROUND. AND, THAT
ASSISTANCE TO MANY OTHER
COUNTRIES, WHO ARE HELPING US
CREATE SOMETHING THAT HAD NEVER
BEEN CREATED BEFORE, IT WAS AN
AUDACIOUS IDEA. THIS NOTION OF A
DEMOCRACY OF SELF-GOVERNANCE,
OF FREEDOMS SPEECH AND PRESS AND
RELIGION AND EXPRESSION. AND
ASSEMBLY. MOST OF ALL, THAT IT
WOULD BE ROOTED IN THE PREMISE
OF THE RULE OF LAW. NOT MONARCHS
NOT MILITARY STRONGMEN, BUT THE
RULE
OF LAW OTHERS HELPED US TO GET
HERE. AND, WE WOULD NOT BE HERE
WITHOUT THEM. AND FRANKLY, I
FEEL LIKE WE ARE ALMOST IN A
LITTLE BIT OF A PAY IT FORWARD
MOMENT. SO, WHEN THE PRESIDENT
DID IT, HE PUT AT RISK THE
SECURITY OF UKRAINE. A STRATEGIC
ALLY AND A NASCENT DEMOCRACY
WITH THEIR MASSES YEARNING
TO BREATHE FREE. SIX YEARS AGO
THIS DAY WHEN THE GOVERNMENT
SAID WE ARE NOT GOING TO SIGN
THE MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT WITH
EUROPEAN UNION, ROSE UP AND TOOK
TO THE STREETS. BECAUSE THEY
WANTED, FRANKLY, WHAT WE HAVE
AND, WHEN THE PRESIDENT DID IT,
HE PUT OUR OWN NATIONAL SECURITY
AT RISK. BUT, WHAT HE DID, MOST
IMPORTANTLY, WAS PUT AT RISK
THAT IDEA THAT MAKES US
EXCEPTIONAL. BECAUSE I DO
BELIEVE AMERICA IS TRULY
EXCEPTIONAL. WE ARE A COUNTRY
ROOTED IN SOMETHING THAT NO ONE
HAS EVER TRIED BEFORE. RULE OF
LAW. HE PUT THAT
AT RISK. WHEN HE DID WHAT HE
DID. THE PRESIDENT DID IT. AND
THE ONLY QUESTION THAT REMAINS
IS WHAT WILL WE DO? I YELLED
BACK MR. CHAIRMAN.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN THANK YOU.
DURING A DEPOSITION, I ASKED YOU
WHAT WAS CHRISTOPHER
STEELE DOSSIER IRREVOCABLE? DO
YOU REMEMBER THE ANSWER
YOU GAVE? AND YOU ALSO SET A
COUPLE PAGES LATER IN THE
DEPOSITION IN THE TRANSCRIPT
THAT I HAVE OF YOUR DEPOSITION
THAT YOU THOUGHT HE GOT PLAYED,
IS THAT FAIR?
>> THAT IS FAIR,
YES.
>> I WAS STRUCK BY A NUMBER OF
THINGS YOU SAID, A NUMBER OF
THINGS WERE RIGHT ON THE TARGET,
ONE WAS ON PAGE 7. PRESIDENT
PUTIN AND THE RUSSIAN SECURITY
SERVICES WEAPONIZED OUR OWN
POLITICAL OPPOSITION RESEARCH.
AND THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT
HAPPENED IN 2016. EXACTLY WHAT
HAPPENED. YOU CALLED IT, YOU
KNEW IT, YOU SAW IT.
THE DMP HIRED FUSION GPS, WHO
HIRED CHRISTOPHER STEELE, WHO
TALKED TO RUSSIANS, WHO GAVE A
BUNCH OF DIRT, BUT OF NATIONAL
ENQUIRER GARBAGE THAT HE
COMPILED
ANY DOSSIER AND ARE FBI USED IT.
THEY USED IT AS A PART OF THEIR
INVESTIGATION THAT THEY OPENED
IN JULY 2016 WHERE THEY SPIED ON
TWO AMERICAN ASSISTANCE
ASSOCIATED WITH THE
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN. THAT HAS
PROBABLY NEVER HAPPENED IN
AMERICAN HISTORY AND EXACTLY
WHAT DR. HILL TALKED ABOUT IS
WHAT HAPPENED IN 2016. EXACTLY
WHAT SHE TALKED ABOUT. FOR
10 MONTHS THE TEAM DID AN
INVESTIGATION. AFTER 10 MONTHS
THEY HAD NOTHING. BECAUSE WE
DEPOSED OF HIM AND HE TOLD US,
AFTER 10 MONTHS WE DID NOT HAVE
A SAYING, THAT IS THE MATTER. IT
DIDN'T MATTER. WE GOT THE
MUELLER INVESTIGATION. $20
MILLION, 19 LAWYERS, 500
SEARCH WARRANTS, AND THEY CAME
BACK THIS SPRING AND WHAT THEY
TELL US? NO COLLUSION, NO
CONSPIRACY, NO COORDINATION. THE
GUYS ON THE OTHER SIDE DON'T
CARE. THEY
DON'T CARE. THEY ARE DOING WHAT
DR. HILL SAID A NUMBER OF
IMPORTANT THINGS IN HER OPENING
STATEMENT. THEY ARE DOING
EXACTLY WHAT DR. HILL
TALKED ABOUT. THE IMPACT OF A
SUCCESSFUL 26 IN RUSSIAN
CAMPAIGN REMAINS EVIDENT TODAY,
OUR NATION IS BEING TORN APART.
TORN APART. I HAVE NEVER SEEN IT
THIS DIVIDED. IT IS NOT HEALTHY
FOR OUR CULTURE, OUR COUNTRY,
NOT HEALTHY FOR OUR NATION BUT
THAT IS WHAT THESE GUYS ARE
DOING. NO CONSPIRACY, NO
COERCION, NO COLLUSION, THEY
DON'T CARE. NOW THIS. THIS WHOLE
IMPEACHMENT THING, AS THE
WITNESS SAID YESTERDAY, WITNESS
SAID YESTERDAY,  WITHOUT AN
ANNOUNCEMENT FROM ZELENSKY
ABOUT AN INVESTIGATION, THEY
WEREN'T GOING TO GET A CALL WITH
THE PRESIDENT, THEY WEREN'T
GOING TO GET AID FROM THE UNITED
STATES. GUESS
WHAT? UKRAINE GOT THE CALL, THEY
GOT
THE MEETING, AND THEY GOT THE
MONEY, AND IT WAS NEVER AN
ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY TYPE OF
INVESTIGATION. BUT THEY DON'T
CARE. THEY WILL MOVE FORWARD,
THERE WILL BE SOME KIND OF
REPORT. I ASSUME SOMETHING TO
THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE. THE
PROCESS WILL GO FORWARD AND
THERE WILL BE A TRIAL IN THE
SENATE ALL BASED ON SOME
ANONYMOUS WHISTLEBLOWER WHO CAME
FORWARD WITH NO FIRSTHAND
KNOWLEDGE, WHO IS BIASED AGAINST
THE PRESIDENT, WHO WORKED WITH
JOE BIDEN. NOW, ALL THIS. NOW
ALL THIS. THIS IS, DR. HILL IS
RIGHT, SHE SAID IT. WE HAVE GOT
TO STOP THIS, BUT THEY ARE NOT
GOING TO AND THEY'RE DOING IT 11
A HALF MONTHS BEFORE THE NEXT
ELECTION AND I THINK THE MOST
TELLING THING, WITH THE SPEAKER
OF THE HOUSE SAID SUNDAY. THIS
IS SCARY. SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE
SET ON SUNDAY, SUNDAY MORNING TV
SHOW, SHE SAID THE PRESIDENT IS
AN IMPOSTER. I GUY THAT 63
MILLION PEOPLE VOTED FOR, THAT
WON THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE
LANDSLIDE, THEY CALLED THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
AN IMPOSTER. IT IS SAD WITH THE
COUNTRY IS GOING THROUGH. I WISH
YOU WOULD STOP, BUT
UNFORTUNATELY, I DON'T THING IT
IS. MR. CHAIRMAN I YIELD
BACK.
>> I WANT TO USE MY TIME TO
SPEAK DIRECTLY TO MY COLLEAGUES
AND TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
TODAY'S WITNESSES, AND THE ONES
WE HAVE BEEN PRIVILEGED TO HAVE
THE FOR THE COMMITTEE OVER THE
LAST TWO WEEKS HAVE PROVIDED AN
INVALUABLE SERVICE TO OUR
COUNTRY. NOT JUST ALL YOUR
CAREERS, AND HAVING THE COURAGE,
AND THE PATRIOTISM TO SHARE YOUR
FAX WITH THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
AND, YOU DO SO AT CONSIDERABLE
RISK TO YOURSELVES BUT, YOU HAVE
CLEARLY STEPPED FORWARD FOR THE
SIMPLE FACT THAT YOU BELIEVE IT
IS YOUR DUTY. AND, AND ALL YOUR
TESTIMONY, IT REAFFIRMS A VERY
CENTRAL FACT. PRESIDENT TRUMP
CONDITIONED OUR FOREIGN POLICY
AND NATIONAL SECURITY ON GETTING
A VALUABLE, POLITICAL BENEFIT
FROM UKRAINE. HE WANTED
UKRAINE'S NEW PRESIDENT TO
CREATE ETHICAL QUESTIONS ABOUT
JOE BIDEN BY PUBLICLY ANNOUNCING
AN INVESTIGATION. AND TO
PRESSURE PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO
TAKE AN ACTION THAT WOULD
BENEFIT HIS PERSONAL POLITICAL
INTEREST, HE WAS HELD VITAL
MILITARY AID TO UKRAINE AND
REFUSED TO MEET WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY IN THE
OVAL OFFICE. AS WE HEARD FROM
MR. HOLMES AND DR. HILL TODAY.
THAT MEETING WAS EXTRAORDINARILY
IMPORTANT TO UKRAINE AND
EXTRAORDINARILY IMPORTANT TO
SENDING A MESSAGE TO RUSSIA
ABOUT OUR UNYIELDING SUPPORT.
THE WITNESSES HAVE MADE IT
ABSOLUTELY CLEAR WHAT THE
PRESIDENT DID THE. AND, IT IS
EQUALLY CLEAR THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAS LAUNCHED A COVER UP.
AND THIS INFORMATION CAMPAIGN TO
HIDE THIS ABUSE OF POWER FROM
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. THAT IS WHY
THE ADMINISTRATION REFUSES TO
PROVIDE DOCUMENTS TO THIS
COMMITTEE. AND, IT IS WHY THE
WHITE HOUSE HAS TAKEN THE
UNPRECEDENTED POSITION THAT
SENIOR OFFICIALS COULD IGNORE
CONGRESSIONAL SUBPOENAS AND
REFUSED
TO TESTIFY, THAT IS MY ACTING
CHIEF OF STAFF MULVANEY,
SECRETARY OF STATE POMPEO, AND
OTHERS HAVE NOT TESTIFIED. NOW,
THE PRESIDENT AND EVEN SOME
MEMBERS OF THIS COMMITTEE ARE
PRETENDING THIS IS NORMAL. IT IS
NOT. IT MUST NEVER BE. NO OTHER
PRESIDENT HAS BETRAYED HIS
OFFICE LIKE THIS BY PUTTING
HIS OWN, SMALL POLITICAL
INTEREST ABOVE OUR NATIONAL
INTEREST AND OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY.
NOW, ASKED SOME OF OUR WITNESSES
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IN ANY
AMERICAN CITY OR TOWN IF THE
MAYOR STOPPED FUNDING THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND TOLD THE UNTIL
THE CHIEF OF POLICE LAUNCHED AN
INVESTIGATION INTO THE MAYOR'S
POLITICAL RIVAL OR A MEMBER OF
CONGRESS
DID THAT. THE ANSWER WAS CLEAR,
IT WOULD BE WRONG, IT WOULD BE
ILLEGAL, AND WOULD NOT BE
TOLERATED. IT WOULD VIOLATE THE
MOST BASIC TRUST WE HAVE. WITH
THE MILITARY COMMANDER, A
COURT-MARTIAL WOULD FOLLOW. WHAT
HAPPENED WITH THE CORPORATION, A
CEO WOULD BE FIRED. WE ALL KNOW
THIS CONDUCT IS WRONG, THE
PRESIDENT CONTINUES TO SAY THAT
IT ISN'T. HE SAYS IT IS PERFECT
AND HE WOULD DO IT AGAIN
TOMORROW. THE SAME RULES APPLY
TO MAYORS, GOVERNORS, MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, CEOs AND EVERYONE ELSE
IN AMERICA. THEY APPLY TO THE
PRESIDENT TOO. WHETHER YOU ARE A
REPUBLICAN OR DEMOCRAT. YOU LIKE
MSNBC OR FOX. I THINK EVERY
AMERICAN BELIEVES IN ONE OF OUR
NATION'S FOUNDING PRINCIPLES NO
PERSON IS ABOVE THE LAW. NOT
EVEN
THE PRESIDENT. JULY 24th,
DIRECTOR MUELLER TESTIFIED ABOUT
THE SYSTEMATIC INTERFERENCE IN
THE 2016 ELECTION. EXPRESSED
APPREHENSION THAT THIS BE COULD
BECOME THE NEW NORMAL. THE DAY
AFTER, ON JULY 25th, PRESIDENT
TRUMP SPOKE TO PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AND ASKED A FAVOR. THAT
FAVOR WAS THAT UKRAINE INTERFERE
IN OUR 2020 ELECTION. IF WE
ALLOW THIS TO EXPAND, TO BECOME
THE
NEW NORMAL, IT'LL BE THE
STANDARD FOR ALL FUTURE
PRESIDENTS IN GOOD CONSCIENCE,
NONE OF US CAN DO THAT. THIS
CONDUCT CORRUPTS
OUR DEMOCRACY, IT CORRUPTS HOW
OUR COUNTRY CONDUCTS FOREIGN
POLICY IT THREATENS OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY AND THE SECURITY OF ALL
AMERICANS. AND, IT IS, IN MY
VIEW, A CLEAR BETRAYAL OF THE
PRESIDENT'S OATH OF OFFICE. I
YELLED
BACK. IN
>> TWO QUICK
HOUSEKEEPING MATTERS, YOU NAME
IS CONSENT TO ENTER INTO THE
RECORD AN ABC NEWS STORY FOR MY
FRIEND MR. STEWART ENTITLED 70%
OF AMERICANS IS A TROUBLE'S
ACTIONS TIED UKRAINE WERE WRONG
W
WITHOUT OBJECTION. ALSO ASKING
HIM IS CONSENT TO ENTER INTO THE
RECORD A NEW YORKER STORY
ENTITLED THE INVENTION OF THE
CONSPIRACY THEORY ON BIDEN AND
UKRAINE, HOW A CONSERVATIVE DARK
MONEY GROUP THE TARGETED HILLARY
CLINTON IN 2016 SPREAD THE
DISCREDITED STORY THAT MAY LEAD
TO DONALD TRUMP'S IMPEACHMENT.
>>
WITHOUT OBJECTION.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON, THANK YOU FOR
BEING HERE.
>> DR. HILL FIRST OF ALL I
THOUGHT THERE WAS SOME EPIC
MANSE PLANNING MANSPLANNING YOU
ARE FORCED TO ENDURE BUT MY
COLLEAGUE MR. TURNER, AND I WANT
TO YOU KNOW THAT SOME OF US
THINK IT WAS INAPPROPRIATE. BUT,
I APPRECIATE YOUR FORBEARANCE.
LET ME ASK SOMETHING, I'M
FASCINATED BY THIS MEETING, TWO
MEETINGS REALLY ON
JULY 10th. YOU HAVE THE MEETING
AND MR.
BOLTON'S OFFICE, SONDLAND SAYS
THE THINGS ABOUT INVESTIGATIONS
THE FOLLOWING MEETING IN THE
BOARDROOM. AND, YOU GET THERE A
LITTLE LATE, AND VINDMAN IS
TALKING TO  SONDLAND AND THEY'RE
GOING ON ABOUT SONDLAND'S DESIRE
TO ASSERT THAT THE MEETING IS
GOING
TO HAPPEN IF THERE IS THESE
INVESTIGATIONS, IS THAT SOME
SUBSTANCE OF WHAT IS GOING ON?
>> I WOULD SAY YES.
>> WHAT I WANT TO UNDERSTAND IS,
IS, THIS ISN'T A POLICY
DISAGREEMENT RIGHT?
>> THAT
IS CORRECT.
>> THE SOURCE OF YOUR CONCERN IS
NOT A POLICY DISAGREEMENT IS NOT
A PROCEDURAL DISAGREEMENT EITHER
ABOUT, EXCUSE ME?
>> YES, IT IS NOT CORRECT.
>> IT IS NEITHER POLICY OR
PROCEDURE THAT IS BOTHERING YOU,
OR FOR THAT MATTER, THE NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISER MR. BOLTON
RIGHT? THAT IS NOT WHAT HE SENDS
YOU DOWN THERE TO SEE HOW THE
MEETING IS GOING. IN FACT, HE
INSTRUCTS YOU TO GO TO THE
LAWYER. EVER BEEN INSTRUCTED TO
GO REPORT SOMETHING TO THE NFC
LAWYER BEFORE?
>> THAT WAS THE FIRST TIME. I
HAVE SELF INSTRUCTED A COUPLE OF
TIMES BUT THAT IS THE FIRST TIME
I HAD BEEN INSTRUCTED TO GO.
>> AND, WHY DID HE SEND YOU TO
REPORT THIS TO THE LAWYER?
>> WELL, HE CLEARLY WANTED TO
HAVE HIMSELF ON THE RECORD AS
NOT BEING PART OF WHAT WAS
BASICALLY AN AGREEMENT TO HAVE
A MEETING IN RETURN FOR
INVESTIGATIONS. AND HE WANTED TO
MAKE SURE THAT I, AND COLONEL
VINDMAN WERE NOT A PART OF THIS
AS WELL BECAUSE  IT WAS A PART
OF NOT GETTING INVOLVED IN
DOMESTIC POLITICS.
>> YES,
I UNDERSTAND, DID YOU CONCUR
WITH THIS CONCERN THAT MR.
BOLTON HAD?
>> I DID. JULY 10th IS REALLY
THE FIRST TIME THAT A
CRYSTALLIZED FOR ME THAT THERE
WAS, BASICALLY, A DIFFERENT
CHANNEL GOING ON HERE. A
FOREIGN-POLICY CHANNEL AND A
DOMESTIC POLICY CHANNEL AND, WE
ARE NOT IN THE CHANNEL.
>> I THINK YOU DESCRIBED IT AS A
LOCAL ERRANDS AND YOU ARE DOING
NATIONAL SECURITY POLICY IS HOW
YOU DISTINGUISH THOSE TWO
CHANNELS, IS THAT
FAIR?
>> YES.
>> RIGHT, IS IT FAIR TO SAY THAT
YOU FELT IT WAS IMPROPER WHAT
WAS OCCURRING BY MR.
SONDLAND ?
>> IT WAS IMPROPER AND
INAPPROPRIATE. WE SAID THAT IN
REAL TIME.
>> AND, HERE IS MY
POINT. IF IF IT WAS
IMPROPER AND, AND YOU WENT SO
FAR AS REPORT THIS TO
THE LAWYERS, WHAT WAS THE NATURE
OF YOUR DISAGREEMENT WITH MR.
SONDLAND WHO HAS COME HERE AND
SAID HE HAD NO IDEA THAT
BURISMA MEANT  BIDEN UNTIL MUCH,
MUCH LATER THAN JULY 10th. OF
COURSE, WE KNOW THAT HE AND
AMBASSADOR VOLKER HAD A BLITZ OF
INTERACTIONS WITH MR. GIULIANI.
THIS ONE WENT ON ALL SUMMER. AND
YET, HOW IS IT YOU HAD THIS
DISAGREEMENT IN FRONT OF THE
UKRAINIANS THAT SENT THEM OUT
INTO THE HALLWAY, AT SOME POINT,
DID HE ASK, I'M JUST
TALKING ABOUT AN INVESTIGATION
OF CORRUPTION, GENERALLY, WHAT
YOU GETTING SO WORRIED ABOUT.
>> DID NOT PUT IT IN THAT WAY,
AND, I THINK FROM LISTENING TO
HIM AND HIS DEPOSITIONS AND, YOU
KNOW, WHAT I HAVE READ HE MADE
IT VERY CLEAR THAT HE WAS
SURPRISED WE HAD SOME KIND OF
OBJECTION. YOU MAY REMEMBER THAT
IN HIS DEPOSITION AND WHEN HE
WAS HERE, HE ACTUALLY DID NOT
REMEMBER THE MEETING IN THE
SAME WAY.
>> I THOUGHT YOU SAID IT WAS
PRETTY OBVIOUS TO YOU? EXCUSE
ME.
>> IT WAS OBVIOUS TO ME.
>> I THOUGHT YOU MEANT THAT
BURISMA MEANT  THE BIDENS AND
THAT IS A PRETTY EASY THING TO
UNDERSTAND THAT MR. MORRISON
FIGURED IT OUT WITH A SINGLE
GOOGLE SEARCH, IT IS AN
INCREDIBLE VIEW THAT MR.
SEAN LIND SONDLAND WAS IN THE
DARK ABOUT THIS?
>> YOU HAD AN ARGUMENT ABOUT IT?
>> HE WAS OBLIVIOUS TO IT, TO
MAKE? I CANNOT FIGURE ANSWER.
>> IT IS NOT CRITICAL TO ME THAT
HE WAS OBLIVIOUS, HE DID NOT SAY
BIDEN, HE SAID BURISMA. I TOOK
IT AS  TO MEAN THE ELECTIONS.
>> I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR YOUR
APPEARANCE
TODAY.
>> MS. DEMING'S.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH DR. HILL
AND MR. HOLMES FOR YOUR SERVICE.
I HAVE NO DOUBT AFTER TODAY THAT
WE ARE A BETTER NATION BECAUSE
OF IT. WE ALL KNOW,
BY NOW, THAT IN JULY OF THIS
YEAR, PRESIDENT TRUMP SENT AN
ORDER TO THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET THAT
CONGRESSIONALLY APPROVED
MILITARY AID TO UKRAINE BE PUT
ON HOLD. BOTH OF YOU HAVE
EXPRESSED
THAT UKRAINE IS THE FIRST LINE
OF DEFENSE AGAINST RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION AND EXPANSION
INTO EUROPE. THE RUSSIA'S
PRIORITY IS TO UNDERMINE THE
UNITED STATES, IS THAT RIGHT DR.
HILL?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> WOULD YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
DR. HILL, IN YOUR
PROFESSIONAL OPINION, AND THE
NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST, OF
THE UNITED STATES TO SUPPORT
UKRAINE WITH THE MUCH TALKED
ABOUT MILITARY AID?
>> YES.
>> MR. HOLMES?
>> WE HAVE ALREADY SAID IT
SEVERAL TIMES A DAY AND YOU
ALREADY TESTIFIED THAT UKRAINE
IS IN WAR RIGHT NOW. WITH
RUSSIA. ISN'T IT TRUE, MR.
HOLMES THAT EVEN THOUGH THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE WAS
EVENTUALLY DELIVERED
TO UKRAINE, AND THE FACT THAT IT
WAS DELAYED TO A COUNTRY THAT
WAS ACTIVELY IN WAR, SIGNAL TO
RUSSIA, THAT PERHAPS THE BOND
BETWEEN UKRAINE AND THE UNITED
STATES WAS WEAKENING.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> EVEN THE APPEARANCE THAT THE
U.S.-UKRAINE BOND IS SHAKY COULD
EMBOLDEN RUSSIA TO ACT IN AN
EVEN MORE AGGRESSIVE WAY?
>> THAT IS
CORRECT.
>> YOU ALSO TESTIFIED THAT IT
WAS A UNANIMOUS VIEW OF THE
UKRAINE POLICY COMMUNITY. THAT
THE AIDS AGENT SHOULD BE
RELEASED BECAUSE SUPPORTING
UKRAINE IS IN OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY INTEREST. DR. HILL, WHY
DO YOU BELIEVE THAT THE ENTIRE
UKRAINE POLICY COMMUNITY WERE
UNANIMOUSLY
IN AGREEMENT?
>> WE'VE HAD THIS EXPERIENCE
BEFORE. I JUST WANT YOU TO
INDULGE ME FOR A MOMENT. IN
2008, RUSSIA ALSO ATTACKED THE
COUNTRY OF GEORGIA. I WAS THE
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE OFFICER AT
THAT PARTICULAR JUNCTURE, AND WE
HAD WARNED, AND MULTIPLE
DOCUMENTS TO THE HIGHEST LEVELS
OF GOVERNMENT THAT WE BELIEVED
THERE WAS A REAL RISK OF A
CONFLICT BETWEEN, SORRY, GEORGIA
AND RUSSIA.
IN FACT, WE ALSO BELIEVED AT
THAT POINT THAT RUSSIA MIGHT
ATTACK UKRAINE. THIS IS IN 2008
WHEN BOTH GEORGIA AND UKRAINE
FORCED A MEMBERSHIP ACTION PLAN
IN NATO. AND RUSSIA THREATENED
THEM OPENLY WHICH THEY PROCEEDED
WITH THE REQUEST FOR NATO
MEMBERSHIP THAT THEY WOULD
BE CONSEQUENCES. WITH THE WEEK
ON THE ATTACK OF GEORGIA, MADE
IT CLEAR TO THE PRESIDENT OF
GEORGIA AT THE TIME. AND THIS
WAS RELATED TO THE HIGHEST
LEVELS OF
THE GOVERNMENT. WESTERN ALLIES,
WESTERN PARTNERS PROMISED A
GREAT DEAL. THEY DIDN'T DELIVER.
I THREATENED, I DELIVERED. WE
HAD MADE ALL KINDS OF PROMISES
TO GEORGIA AND UKRAINE IN THAT
TIMEFRAME. AND IT DIDN'T
COME THROUGH. PUTIN IS ALWAYS
LOOKING OUT TO SEE IF THERE ANY
HENS WE WOULD NOT FOLLOW THROUGH
ON POLICIES THAT WE MADE BECAUSE
HE WILL ALWAYS FOLLOW THROUGH ON
A THREAT, AS INDEED HE
ULTIMATELY DID. HE THREATENED
UKRAINE IN 2008 AND IT WASN'T
UNTIL 2014 THAT UKRAINE TRIED TO
CONCLUDE AN ASSOCIATION WITH THE
EUROPEAN UNION. HE HAD BEEN
TRAINING THIS FOR THE WHOLE.
SINCE 2008
>>
THANK YOU, MR. HOLMES WHAT
MESSAGE DOES IT SEND TO OTHER
ALLIES OF THE UNITED STATES
WHEN MILITARY HOLDS FOR
ASSISTANCE, OR FOR IMPOSED WITH
NO EXPLANATION, WHAT KIND OF
MESSAGES ARE SENT TO OUR ALLIES
IN TERMS OF GOOD FAITH AND GOOD
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE U.S.?
>> CALLS INTO QUESTION THE
EXTENT TO WHICH THEY CAN COUNT
ON US.
>> POLICIES CHANGE BUT U.S.
INTEREST DON'T. AT LEAST NOT FOR
THOSE TRUE PUBLIC SERVANTS WHO
ARE COMMITTED, AND DEDICATED TO
PROTECTING OUR NATION. THANK YOU
BOTH FOR BEING TWO OF THEM.
W GOOD AFTERNOON, THANK YOU FOR
COMING IN AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR
SERVICE. DR. HILL YOU STATED IN
YOUR DEPOSITION YOU HAVE BEEN
ACCUSED OF BEING A ROLE MOLE IN
THE WHITE HOUSE, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> YOU SAID IN YOUR DEPOSITION,
SPECIFICALLY, A CONSPIRACY WAS
LAUNCHED AGAINST YOU BY
CONVICTED FELON ROGER STONE ON
THE SHOW
INFO WARS LED BY ALEX JONES,
RIGHT?
>> I DON'T THINK IT WAS A
CONFLICT AT THE TIME THAT HE
LAUNCHED THIS SO I DO NOT USE
THOSE EXACT WORDS. BUT, IT WAS
INDEED ROGER STONE AND ALEX
JONES IN INFO WARS IN 2016, MORE
RECENTLY, BEFORE MR. STONE
ENDURED HIS TRIAL, THEY WERE AT
IT AGAIN REPRISING THE SAME INFO
AND ADDING EMBELLISHMENTS.
>> THEY SAID, I WILL QUOTE WHAT
THEY SAID ABOUT YOU. "WE HEAR,
AT INFO WARS. THIS IS ROGER
STONE SPEAKING, FIRST IDENTIFY
OWED IDENTIFY FIONA HILL, THE
GLOBALIST LEFTIST GEORGE SOROS
INSIDER
THAT INFILTRATED STAFF." HE SAID
THAT ON MAY 31st, 2017. I ASSUME
YOU'RE NOT A
GLOBALIST LEFT-SIDED?
>> HAVING MY COLLEAGUES WOULD BE
SURPRISED TO HEAR THAT ABOUT ME.
LEFTIST, NOT SO MUCH WITH THE
LEFT IN EUROPE IS DIFFERENT FROM
THE LEFT EAR HERE.
>> I AGREE.
>> INTERESTINGLY, YOU STATED IN
YOUR DEPOSITION THAT A SIMILAR
CONSPIRACY THEORY HAD ACTUALLY
BEEN LAUNCHED AGAINST MARIE
YOVANOVITCH.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> USES SPECIFICALLY "WHEN I SAW
THIS HAPPENING TO AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH, I WAS FURIOUS .
BECAUSE THIS IS AGAIN JUST A
WHIPPING UP OF WHAT IS FRANKLY
AN ANTI-SEMITIC CONSPIRACY
THEORY ABOUT GEORGE SOROS TO
BASICALLY TARGET NONPARTISAN
CAREER OFFICIALS, IS THAT WHAT
YOU SAID?
>> THAT IS WHAT I SAID.
>> I'M SURE YOU HAVE BEEN
WATCHING WITH CONCERN WHAT HAS
HAPPENED TO OTHER NONPARTISAN
CAREER OFFICIALS. WE HAD
LIEUTENANT COLONEL ALEX VINDMAN,
AND  AN IMMIGRANT QUESTION FOR
HIS CRITICISM OF
THE PRESIDENT. NOW, IN A VERY,
UNFAIR WAY, BASICALLY
QUESTIONING HIS LOYALTY TO THE
COUNTRY. I BELIEVE HE IS ALSO OF
UKRAINIAN-JEWISH DESCENT. WOULD
YOU SAY THAT IT IS DIFFERENT
THEORIES, THESE CONSPIRACY
THEORIES THAT HAVE BEEN
TARGETING YOU SPUN IN PART BY
FOLKS LIKE MR. STONE, AS
WELL AS FUELED BY RUDY GIULIANI,
AND
OTHERS. BASICALLY, HAVE A TENT
OF ANTI-SEMITISM TO THEM, AT
LEAST?
>> CERTAINLY WHEN THEY INVOLVE
GEORGE SOROS THEY DO. I LIKE TO
POINT OUT THAT IN THE EARLY
1900S, THERE ARE THE SECRET
POLICE THAT PRODUCED SOMETHING
CALLED THE, BUT YOU CAN STILL
OBTAIN ON THE INTERNET AND BUY
SOMETIMES AND BOOKSHOPS IN
RUSSIA
AND ELSEWHERE. THIS IS THE
LONGEST-RUNNING ANTI-SEMITIC
TROPE WE HAVE IN HISTORY. AND, A
TROPE AGAINST MR. GEORGE SOROS
WAS ALSO CREATED FOR POLITICAL
PURPOSES. AND, THIS IS THE
NEW PROTOCOL I INTENDED TO WRITE
SOMETHING ABOUT THIS BEFORE I
WAS ACTUALLY INVITED TO COME
INTO THE ADMINISTRATION.
ABSOLUTE OUTRAGE.
>> I'M SORRY THAT YOU HAVE BEEN
KIND OF WRAPPED UP IN THESE
CRACKPOT CONSIDERS CONSPIRACY
THEORIES. LET ME TURN TO RUDY
GIULIANI. HE BECAME INCREASINGLY
CONCERNED ABOUT RUDY GIULIANI'S
INCREASING ROLE
IN UKRAINE BETWEEN JANUARY AND
MARCH OF 2019, CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> I KNOW YOU SERVED IN THE BUSH
AND OBAMA ADMINISTRATIONS I
PRESUME THAT GEORGE BUSH'S
PERSONAL LAWYER AND, PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S PERSONAL LAWYER'S WERE
NEVER, YOU KNOW, DIRECTING OR
HEAVILY INFLUENCING UKRAINIAN
POLICY.
>> I'M NOT EVEN SURE I KNEW WHO
THEY WERE. SO THE ANSWER IS NO.
>> THE CONCERN FOR HAVING
SOMEONE LIKE RUDY GIULIANI
HAVING SUCH A STRONG INFLUENCE
ON AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY IS
THAT YOU KNOW, BASICALLY
THAT POLICY MAY BE OPERATING NOT
IN THE BEST INTEREST OF AMERICA,
BUT PERHAPS IN THE BEST INTEREST
OF RUDY GIULIANI OR HIS CLIENTS
OR BUSINESS
ASSOCIATES, RIGHT?
>> I THINK THAT IS CORRECT, AND
THAT IS WHAT I SAID IN MY
DEPOSITION ON OCTOBER 14th.
WRINKLY, THAT IS WHAT I THOUGHT
IT WAS AT THE VERY BEGINNING
WHEN I FIRST HEARD MR. GIULIANI.
>> SOME OF THOSE ASSOCIATES
INCLUDED
INDICTED FOLKS, ISN'T THAT
RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> WE HAVE AN INTERESTING
CHARACTER IN CHICAGO WHO IS NOW
BEEN INDICTED, HIS NAME IS MR.
FOR TASS. MR. FOR TASS HAS BEEN
INDICTED FOR FEDERAL BRIBERY
CHARGES AND OTHER ASSOCIATES
OF GIULIANI
>> I KNOW OF HIM FOR MY WORK
THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THE QUESTION THAT WE ARE ALL
ASKING IS WHETHER AMERICAN
FOREIGN POLICY IN UKRAINE IS
POTENTIALLY BEING RUN IN THEIR
INTEREST, AND NOT OUR OWN.
>> IT CERTAINLY APPEARS THAT IT
HAS BEEN USED, THE SUBVERSION OF
AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY TO PUSH
THESE PERSONS PERSONAL INTEREST.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH. TWO THAT
INCLUDES THE MEMBER QUESTIONING
I WILL NOW GO TO CLOSING
STATEMENTS. CHAIRMAN SCHIFF DO
YOU HAVE ANY
REMARKS  TRAN40 YOU HAVE ANY
REMARKS?
>> THANK YOU I HAVE STRESS ANY
HEARINGS THAT THE WHISTLEBLOWER
COMPLAINT WAS MERELY A PRETEXT
FOR DONALD TRUMP'S POLITICAL
OPPONENTS TO DO WHAT THEY WILL
DO SINCE HE HAS BEEN ELECTED,
OUSTED THE PRESIDENT FROM
OFFICE. THE BRIEF TIME WILL
ILLUSTRATE THE WIDE RANGE OF
EXTERNAL ATTACKS IS A
ADMINISTRATION HAS
FACED.  START IN JUNE 2016 WHEN
DONALD TRUMP WAS JUST A
CANDIDATE. ON BEHALF OF THE
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE
AND THE HILLARY CLINTON
CAMPAIGN, FUSION GPS HIRES
CHRISTOPHER STEELE TO WRITE THE
STEELE DOSSIER'S, A COLLECTION
OF FALSE ALLEGATIONS ATTRIBUTED
TO RUSSIAN SOURCES CLAIMING THAT
DONALD TRUMP IS A RUSSIAN AGENT.
FAST MORE TO GENERATE
SIX, 2017. FBI DIRECTOR, JAMES
COMEY BREED BRIEFS ALLEGED
PRESIDENT TRUMP
ON THE STEELE DOSSIER. THE
BRIEFING IS LATE AND SOON
AFTERWARD BUZZFEED PUBLISHES THE
DOSSIER.
JANUARY 20th PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
INAUGURATION DAY, THE WASHINGTON
POST RUNS A STORY HEADLINED "THE
CAMPAIGN TO IMPEACH DONALD
TRUNK HAS DONALD TRUMP HAS
BEGUN." JERRY 30th JANUARY 30th,
DAYS LATER,
>> MARCH 22nd, DEMOCRATS ON THIS
COMMITTEE
FALSELY DECLARE ON NATIONAL TV
THAT THEY HAVE MORE THAN
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE THAT THE
TRUMP CAMPAIGN COLLUDED
WITH RUSSIA. JULY 12th, AN
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT IS FILED
AGAINST PRESIDENT TRUMP AND THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
NOVEMBER 15th DEMOCRATS FILE
ADDITIONAL ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT AGAINST
PRESIDENT TRUMP. AS YOU SEE,
THIS WAS JUST PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
FIRST YEAR IN OFFICE, HE WAS
SUBJECTED TO THE COORDINATED
SMEAR OPERATION DESIGNED TO
FALSELY PORTRAY HIM AS A RUSSIAN
AGENT. AS WELL AS ATTEMPTS TO
IMPEACH HIM. THIS ALL
OCCURRED BEFORE HIT THIS NOW
INFAMOUS CALL WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY. IN 2018, THE
ATTACKS CONTINUED. OFTEN FROM
EXECUTIVE BRANCH OFFICIALS
CHARGED WITH
IMPLEMENTING POLICIES.
RELEASED A MEMO, REVEALING THAT
THE FBI USED FABRICATIONS THE
STEELE DOSSIER TO GET A WARRANT
TO SPY ON THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN
ASSOCIATE. SEPTEMBER 5th, THE
NEW YORK TIMES PRINTS A COLUMN
BY
AN ANONYMOUS OFFICIAL WHO
EXPLAINED THAT HE AND OTHER
SENIOR OFFICIALS ARE "WORKING
DILIGENTLY FROM WITHIN TO
FRUSTRATE PARTS OF TRUMP'S
AGENDA."
DECEMBER 7th, JAMES COMEY ADMITS
TO CONGRESS THE STEELE DOSSIER
WAS UNVERIFIED BEFORE AND AFTER
THE FBI
USED IT. TO GET A WARRANT TO SPY
ON THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN ASSOCIATE.
THE RUSSIA HOAX CONTINUED TO BE
THE MAIN FOCUS OF ATTACKS GOING
INTO 2019. BUT, WHEN THAT ENTIRE
OPERATION COLLAPSED, A NEW
IMPEACHMENT PRETEXT HAD TO BE
FOUND. MAY
4th, 2019 ON NATIONAL TELEVISION
A DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS PERCENT
CLAIMS "I AM CONCERNED IF WE
DON'T IMPEACH THIS PRESIDENT, HE
WILL GET REELECTED." JULY 24th
OF THIS YEAR, SPECIAL COUNSEL
ROBERT MUELLER TESTIFIES TO
CONGRESS ABOUT HIS REPORT WHICH
DEBUNKED THE CONSPIRACY THEORY
THAT TRUMP CAMPAIGN ASSOCIATES
CONSPIRED WITH RUSSIA TO HACK
THE 2016 ELECTION..
JULY 25th, JUST THE VERY NEXT
DAY, A NEW ANTI-TRUMP OPERATION
BEGINS AS SOMEONE LISTENS TO THE
PRESIDENT'S PHONE CALL WITH
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT ZELENSKY.
AND LEAKS THE CONTENT AS A
SO-CALLED WHISTLEBLOWER.
SEPTEMBER 13th. DEMOCRATS ON
THIS COMMITTEE TAKE THE
EXTRAORDINARY STEP OF ISSUING A
PRESS RELEASE RELATED TO THE
WHISTLEBLOWER'S COMPLAINT.
OCTOBER 2nd, IT IS REVEALED THAT
DEMOCRATIC STAFF ON THIS
COMMITTEE HAD CONTACT WITH THE
WHISTLEBLOWER BEFORE HE
SUBMITTED HIS COMPLAINT TO THE
INSPECTOR GENERAL. CONTRADICTING
DEMOCRAT DENIALS THAT SUCH
CONTACT
HAD OCCURRED. OCTOBER 31st,
HALLOWEEN, PROBABLY THE MOST
APPROPRIATE DAY, DEMOCRATS IN
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
VOTE TO OPEN AN OFFICIAL
IMPISHLY IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
AGAINST PRESIDENT TRUMP. WHAT
YOU SEE IN THIS ROOM OVER THE
PAST TWO WEEKS IS A
SHOW TRIAL. A PLANT RESULT OF
THREE YEARS OF POLITICAL
OPERATIONS AND
DIRTY TRICKS. AND PAINS THAT
WEIGHED AGAINST THIS PRESIDENT.
AND, LIKE ANY GOOD SHOW TRIAL,
THE VERDICT WAS DECIDED BEFORE
THE TRIAL EVER BEGAN.
AFTER ALL, AFTER DOUBTING THE
PRESIDENT FOUR YEARS AS A
RUSSIAN AGENT, ANY THREAT TO
DEMOCRACY, HOW CAN THE DEMOCRATS
NOT
IMPEACH HIM? IF THEY DON'T HAVE
TO, IF THEY DON'T MOVE TO
OVERTHROW HIM, IT WOULD INDICATE
THEY DON'T REALLY BELIEVE IN
THEIR OWN DIRE WARNINGS ABOUT
THE THREAT THAT HE POSES.
DEMOCRATS ONLY NEEDED A PRETEXT.
WHEN THERE RUSSIAN DOSSIERS AND
INVESTIGATIONS FAILED TO DO THE
JOB THEY MOVED TO PLAN B. A
UKRAINE HOAX. THE SPECTACLE WITH
ITS SECRET DEPOSITIONS AND MID
HEARING OF PRESS CONFERENCES IS
NOT MEANT TO DISCOVER THE FACTS,
IT
WAS DESIGNED TO PRODUCE A
SPECIFIC STORYLINE TO BE PUSHED
FORWARD BY THE DEMOCRATS AND
THEIR SUPPORTERS IN THE MEDIA.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, AS WE
APPROACH THANKSGIVING SPEAKER
PELOSI HAS JUST MADE CLEAR, JUST
TODAY, USMCA, THE TRADE DEAL
WITH CANADA AND MEXICO WILL
BOOST OUR ECONOMY, IT WON'T BE
SIGNED THIS YEAR. I HOPE, MR.
CHAIRMAN
SCHIFF  WILL CLARIFY HOW MUCH
LONGER WE WILL WASTE ON THIS
EFFORT AND WHAT OTHER VITAL
LEGISLATION HE IS WILLING TO
SACRIFICE FOR THIS IMPEACHMENT
WILL THERE BE EVEN MORE SECRET
DEPOSITIONS ACCOMPANIED BY THE
USUAL FLAT A DEMOCRATIC LEAKS?
WILL WE HAVE MORE PUBLIC
HEARINGS WITH DEMOCRAT
WITNESSES, BUT NOT OURS MINORITY
ARE IN THE DARK ABOUT WHAT THIS
COMMITTEE WILL BE DOING WHEN WE
RETURN. SO, IS AMERICA. JAMES
MADISON WARNED US ABOUT THE
DANGER POSED BY THE TIERNEY OF
THE MAJORITY. TO AVOID THAT
THREAT, OUR FOUNDERS CREATED A
CONSTITUTIONAL REPUBLIC. BUT, IS
THERE A BETTER EXAMPLE OF THE
TYRANNY OF THE MAJORITY IN THE
WAY THIS IMPEACHMENT PROCESS HAS
BEEN RUN IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES. A PROCESS THAT
IS GROSSLY UNFAIR CAN ONLY STEM
FROM A CYNICAL MAJORITY THAT IS
WILLING TO BREAK LONG
ESTABLISHED PRESENCES.
PRECEDENTS TRAMPLE ON MAJORITY
CONCERNS, AND IS TO ASSUME THEIR
ABSOLUTE WILL ON THIS BODY
THROUGH SHEER FORCE OF NUMBERS.
EXPLOITING THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE AS A VENUE FOR
IMPEACHMENT HAS BEEN ONE OF THE
GROSSEST ABUSES IN THE PROCESS
FILLED WITH CLINICAL
MANIPULATIONS, LARGE
AND SMALL. BUT THIS FARCE WILL
SOON MOVE TO THE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE WHERE IMPEACHMENT
RIGHTFULLY BELONGS. I WISH MY
REPUBLICAN COLLEAGUES WELL IN
FIGHTING THIS TRAVESTY AND
DEFENDING
THE IDEA. WHICH AT ONE TIME
RECEIVED BIPARTISAN SUPPORT NOT
LONG AGO. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE'S
VOTE ACTUALLY MEANS SOMETHING.
I YIELD TIME.
>> THANK YOU THE GENTLEMAN,
FIRST
OF ALL I WANT TO THANK YOU BOTH
FOR YOUR TESTIMONY. I WANTED
THANK YOU FOR YOUR LONG YEARS OF
SERVICE TO THE COUNTRY. YOU ARE
NOT DEMOCRATIC WITNESSES OR
REPUBLICAN WITNESSES, YOU ARE
NONPARTISAN AND HAVE TALKED TO
THE FACTS AND THAT IS AS IT
SHOULD BE, FIRST I WANT TO MAKE
A COUPLE OF OBSERVATIONS ABOUT
THE HEARING TODAY. DR. HILL, YOU
WERE CRITICIZED SEVERAL TIMES BY
MY COLLEAGUES FOR YOUR OPENING
STATEMENT. I'M GLAD YOU DO NOT
BACK DOWN FROM IT. YOU ARE MUCH
MORE DIPLOMATIC THAN I AM, I
HAVE
TO SAY. ANYONE WATCHING THESE
PROCEEDINGS, ANYONE READING THE
DEPOSITION TRANSCRIPTS WOULD
HAVE THE SAME IMPRESSION THAT
YOU, EVIDENTLY HAD FROM HEARING
MY COLLEAGUES ABOUT THE RUSSIA
HOAX.
THAT THE WHOLE IDEA THAT RUSSIA
GOT INVOLVED IN THE AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND ELECTION  WAS A HOAX
PUT OUT BY THE DEMOCRATS.